Mr. Quilter is the apostle of the middle classes, and we are glad to welcome his gospel.
Nor is Mr. Quilter's manner less interesting than his matter.
He tells us that at this festive season of the year, with Christmas and roast beef looming before us, similes drawn from eating and its results occur most readily to the mind.
He has grieved doubts whether Sir Frederick Layton's work is really Greek after all, and can discover in it but little of rocky Ithaca.
Lynille's pictures are a sort of up-guards and atom paintings, and Mason's exquisite idols are as national as a jingo poem. Mr. Burkett Foster's landscapes smile at one much in the same way that Mr. Carkerer used to flash his teeth, and Mr. John Collier gives his sitter a cheerful slap on the back before he says like a shampoo or a Turkish bath. Next, man!
It is obviously unnecessary for us to point out how luminous these criticisms are, how delicate in expression.
Under general principles of art, Mr. Quilter writes with equal lucidity.
Painting, he tells us, is of a different quality to mathematics, and finish in art is adding more factor.
As for etchings, there are two kinds, British and foreign.
He laments most bitterly the divorce that has been made between decorative art and what we usually call pictures. Makes the customary appeal to the last judgment and reminds us that in the great days of art Michelangelo was the furnishing upholster.
near the fire, and the ornaments Fred brought home from India on the mental board.
In fact, he is quite severe on Mr. Ruskin for not recognizing that a picture should denote the frailty of man, and remarks with pleasing courtesy in Phyllis of this grace that, many phases of feeling,
only unfortunately his own work never does get good
Mr. Quilter has missed his chance, for he has failed even to make himself the Tupper of painting.
by Harry Quilter MA.
Because you are sleeping instead of conquering, the lovely rose princess has become a fiddle without a bow, while poor Shaggy sits there, accuing dove.
He has gone and gone for good," answered Polychrome, who had managed to squeeze into the room beside the dragon and had witnessed the occurrences with much interest.
I have remained a prisoner only because I wish to be one. And with this he stepped forward and burst the stout chains as easily as if they had been threads.
The little girl had been asleep, but she heard the raps and opened the door.
The king has flooded disgrace and your friends are asking for you.
I begged Rugged out long ago to send him away, but he would not do so.
I also offered to help your brother to escape, but he would not go.
He eats and sleeps very steadily, replied the new king.
I hope it doesn't work too hard, since Shaggy.
He doesn't work at all.
In fact, there is nothing he can do in these dominions as well as our gnomes whose numbers are so great that it worries us to keep them all busy.
Not exactly, we've turned Calico.
Where is my brother now?
inquired Shaggy in the metal forest.
Where is that?
The Middle Forest is in the Great Doned Cavern, the largest in all our dominions, replied Calico.
Calico hesitated.
However, if we look sharp, we may be able to discover one of these secret ways.
Oh no, I'm quite sure he didn't.
That's funny, remarked but see you thoughtfully.
I don't believe Ann knew any magic or she'd have worked it before.
I do not know, confess to Shaggy.
True agreed, Calico.
Calico went to the Big Gong and pounded on it just as Vergado used to do, but no one answered the summons.
Having returned to the Royal Cavern, Calico first pounded the gong and then sat in the throne, wearing Regato's discarded ruby crown and holding in his hand to scepter which Regato had so often thrown at his head.
A man said to the universe, Sir, I exist.
Sweat-covered Brien's body, trickling into the tight-willing cloth that was the only german he wore.
The cut on his chest is still dripping blood. The ache of his overstrained eyes, even the soaring arena around him with the thousands of spectators, retrievality is not worth thinking about.
His instant panic was followed by a small, sharp blow high on his chest.
One minute, a voice said, and the time buzzer sounded.
A minute is not a very large measure of time and his body needed every fraction of it.
The buzzers were triggered muscles into complete relaxation.
Oli's heart and lungs worked on at a strong measured rate.
He was in reverie, sliding along the borders of consciousness.
The contestants in the 20s needed undisturbed rest. Therefore, knights in the dormitories were as quiet as death.
Particularly so, on this last night, when only two of the little cubicles were occupied, the thousands of others standing with dark, empty doors.
The other voice snapped with a harsh urgency clearly used to command.
I'm here because the matter is of utmost importance, and brand is the one I must see. Now stand aside.
the 20s
You must have drawn his gun, because the intruder said quickly, but that away, you're being a fool. Out.
There was silence then, and still wondering, Brien was once more asleep.
10 seconds
He asked the handler who was needing his aching muscles.
A red-haired mountain of a man was an apparently inexhaustible store of energy.
There could be little art in this last and final round of fencing.
Just thrust and parry and victory to the stronger.
Every man who entered the 20s had his own training tricks.
There appeared to be an immediate association with the death trauma as if the two were inextricably linked into one.
The strength that enables someone in a trance to hold his body stiff and unsupported except at two points, the head and heels.
This is physically impossible when conscious.
Others had died before during the 20s, and death during the last round was in some ways easier than defeat.
Breathing deeply, Brienne softly spoke the auto hypnotic phrases that triggered the process.
When the buzzer sounded, he pulled his foil from his second startled grasp and ran forward.
I roll a click amazed at the sudden fury of the attack, then smiled.
He thought it was the last burst of energy. He knew how close they both were to exhaustion.
Brien saw something close to panic on his opponent's face when the man finally recognized his error.
A wave of despair rolled out from our og. Brien sensed it and knew the fifth point was his.
Then the powerful twist that thrusts to the side, in and under the guard,
He had written a number of books himself, among them a history of dancing, a history of costume, a key to Shakespeare's sonnets, a study of the poetry of Ernest Dausen, etc.
Hugh's written a delightful part for her and she's quite inexpressible.
I happen to have McConnell's box for tonight, or there'd be no chance of our getting places.
Alexander exclaimed mildly.
myself, I always knew she had it in her.
Do you know Alexander? Mainhall looked with perplexity up into the top of the handsome, and rubbed his pink cheek with his gloved finger. Do you know I sometimes think of taking to criticism seriously myself.
When they entered the stage box on the left, the first act was well underway, the scene being the interior of a cabin in the south of Ireland.
As they sat down, a burst of applause drew Alexander's attention to the stage.
Of course, Hilda is Irish. Their brigorns have been stage people for generations. And she has the Irish voice.
It's delightful to hear it in a London theater.
When she began to dance, by way of showing the gossoons which she had seen in the fairy rings at night, the house broke into a prolonged uproar.
After her dance, she withdrew from the dialogue and retreated to the ditch wall back of Philly's borough, where she sat singing the rising of the moon and making a wreath of primroses for her donkey.
McConnell. Let me introduce Mr. Bartley Alexander.
The playwright gave main hall a curious look out of his deep set faded eyes and made a right face.
He nodded curtly and made for the door, dodging acquaintances as he went.
I dare say it's quite true that there's never been anyone else.
He's another who's awfully keen about her. Let me introduce you.
Sir Harry Town bowed and said that he had met Mr. Alexander and his wife in Tokyo.
I say, Sir Harry, the little girl's going famously tonight, isn't she?
The fact is, she's feeling rather seedy, poor child.
a little attack of nerves, possibly.
He bowed as the warning bell rang, and main-hall whispered, You know Lord Westmer, of course, the stooped man with the long-gray mustache, talking to Lady Dowell.
In a moment Peggy was on the stage again, and Alexander applauded vigorously with the rest.
In the half-light, he looked about at the stalls and boxes and smiled a little consciously, recalling with the amusement Sir Harry's judicial frown.
He leaned forward and beamed felicitations as warmly as Maynhal himself when, at the end of the play, she came again and again before the curtain, panting a little and flushed, her eyes dancing and her eager, nervous little mouth tremulous with excitement.
All the same. He lifted his glass. Here's to you, little Hilda.
I'm glad she's held her own sense.
It was youth and poverty and proximity, and everything was young and kindly.
The last two days of the voyage, Bartley found almost intolerable.
Emerging at Houston at half past three o'clock in the afternoon, Alexander had his luggage sent to the Savoy and drove it once to Bedford Square.
She blushed and smiled and fumbled his card in her confusion before she ran upstairs.
The room was empty when he entered.
A coal fire was crackling in the grate, and the lamps were lit, for it was already beginning to grow dark outside.
She called his name on the threshold, but in her swift flight across the room she felt a change in him and caught herself up so deftly that he could not tell just when she did it.
She merely brushed his cheek with her lips and put a hand lightly and joyously on either shoulder.
I never dreamed it would be you, Bartley.
When did you come, Bartley, and how did it happen? You haven't spoken a word.
She looked at his heavy shoulders and big determined head, thrust forward like a catapult in leash.
I'll do anything you wish me to, Bartley," she said tremulously.
He pulled up a window as if the air were heavy.
Hilda watched him from her corner, chumbling and scarcely breathing, dark shadows going about her eyes.
It hasn't always made you miserable, has it?
Always, but it's worse now.
It's unbearable. It tortures me every minute.
I am not a man who can live two lives," he went on feverishly. Each life spoils the other.
I get nothing but misery out of either.
There is this deception between me and everything.
At that word, deception, spoken with such self-contempt, the color flashed back into Hilda's face as suddenly as if she had been struck by a whiplash.
She bit her lip and looked down at her hands, which were clasped tightly in front of her.
Could you sit down and talk about it quietly, Bartley, as if I were a friend and not someone who had to be defied?
He dropped back heavily into his chair by the fire.
I have thought about it until I am worn out.
after the very first.
Hilda's face quivered, but she whispered, Yes, I think it must have been.
She pressed his hand gently and gratitude. Weren't you happy then, at all?
Something of their troubling sweetness came back to Alexander, too.
Presently, it's door back to his coat sleeve.
Yes, Hilda, I know that," he said, simply.
I understand, Bartley. I was wrong.
She listened intently, but she heard nothing but the creaking of his chair.
You want me to say it, she whispered.
Bartley leaned his head in his hands and spoke through his teeth.
It's got to be a clean break, Hilda.
Oh, Bartley, what am I to do?
You ask me to stay away from you because you want me?
I will ask the least imaginable, but I must have something.
Hilda sat on the arm of it and put her hands lightly on his shoulders.
You see, loving someone as I love you makes the whole world different.
And then you came back, not caring very much, but it made no difference.
She slid to the floor beside him, as if she were too tired to sit up any longer.
Don't cry, don't cry, he whispered.
On the last Saturday in April, the New York Times published an account of the strike complications, which were delaying Alexander's New Jersey Bridge, and stated that the engineer himself was in town and at his office on West 10th Street.
Over the fireplace, there was a large, old-fashioned, guilt mirror.
He rose and crossed the room quickly.
Of course I know, Bartley," she said at last, that after this you won't owe me the least consideration. But we sail on Tuesday.
I saw that interview in the paper yesterday telling where you were, and I thought I had to see you. That's all. Good night. I'm going now.
Let me take off your coat and your boots. They're oozing water.
if you'd sent me a note or telephone to me or anything.
I told myself that if I were really thinking of you and not of myself, a letter would be better than nothing.
He paused. They never did to me.
Oh, Bartley, did you write to me?
Alexander slipped his arm about her.
I think I have felt that you were coming.
He bent his face over her hair.
And I, she whispered, I felt that you were feeling that.
But when I came, I thought I had been mistaken.
I've been up in Canada with my bridge and I arranged not to come to New York until after you had gone.
Then when your manager added two more weeks, I was already committed.
I'm going to do what you asked me to do when you were in London.
Only I'll do it more completely.
Then you don't know what you're talking about.
Yes, I know very well.
Alexander flushed angrily.
I don't know what I ought to say, but I don't believe you'd be happy. Truly I don't. Aren't you trying to frighten me?
A laudable regard for the honor of the first proselyte has countenced the belief, the hope, the wish, that the Ebionites, or at least the Nazarenes, were distinguished only by their obstinate perseverance in the practice of the Mosaic rites.
Their churches have disappeared, their books are obliterated, their obscure freedom might allow a latitude of faith, and the softness of their infant creed would be variously molded by the zeal or prudence of three hundred years.
Yet the most charitable criticism must refuse these sectories any knowledge of the pure and proper divinity of Christ.
His progress from infancy to youth and manhood was marked by a regular increase in stature and wisdom, and after a painful agony of mind and body, he expired on the cross.
He lived and died for the service of mankind, but the life and death of Socrates had likewise been devoted to the cause of religion and justice. And although the stoic, or the hero, may disdain the humble virtues of Jesus, the tears which he shed over his friend and country may be esteemed the purest evidence of his humanity.
The son of a virgin, generated by the ineffable operation of the Holy Spirit, was a creature without example or resemblance, superior in every attribute of mind and body to the children of Adam.
Nor could it seem strange or incredible that the first of these eons, the Logos, or Word of God, of the same substance with the Father should descend upon Earth to deliver the human race from vice and error, and to conduct them in the paths of life and immortality.
But the prevailing doctrine of the eternity and inherent gravity of matter infected the primitive churches of the East.
Many among the Gentile proselytes refused to believe that a celestial spirit, an undivided portion of the first essence, had been personally united with a mass of impure and contaminated flesh. And in their zeal for the divinity, they piously objured the humanity of Christ.
He first appeared on the banks of the Jordan in the form of perfect manhood, but it was a form only and not a substance, a human figure created by the hand of omnipotence to imitate the faculties and actions of a man, and to impose a perpetual illusion on the senses of his friends and enemies.
But the rashness of these concessions has encouraged a milder sentiment of those of the dough seats who taught not that Christ was a phantom, but that he was clothed with an impassable and incorruptible body.
A fetus that could increase from an invisible point to its full maturity, a child that could attain the stature of perfect manhood without deriving any nourishment from the ordinary sources, might continue to exist without repairing a daily waste by a daily supply of external matter.
In their eyes, Jesus of Nazareth was a mere mortal, the legitimate son of Joseph and Mary, but he was the best and wisest of the human race, selected as the worthy instruments to restore upon earth the worship of the true and supreme deity.
When the Messiah was delivered into the hands of the Jews, the Christ and immortal and impassable being, forsook his earthly tabernacle, flew back to the Plarima, or world of spirits, and left the solitary Jesus to suffer, to complain, and to expire.
But the justice and generosity of such a desertion are strongly questionable, and the fate of an innocent martyr at first impelled and at length abandoned by his divine companion might provoke the pity and indignation of the profane.
Their murmurs were variously silenced by the sectories who espoused and modified the double system of current this.
The worthy friend of Athanasius, the worthy antagonist of Julian, he bravely wrestled with the Aryans and Polytheists, and though he affected the rigor of geometrical demonstration, his commentaries revealed the literal and allegorical sense of the scriptures.
Yet, as the profound doctor had been terrified of his own rashness, Apollonaris was heard to mutter some faint accents of excuse and explanation.
He acquiesced in the old distinction of the Greek philosopher as between the rational and sensitive soul of man, that he might reserve the logos for intellectual functions and employ the subordinate human principle in the meaner actions of animal life.
But instead of a temporary and occasional alliance, they established and we still embrace the substantial, indissoluble, and everlasting union of a perfect God with a perfect man, of the second person of the Trinity with a reasonable soul and human flesh.
Under the tuition of the Abbot-Serapion, he applied himself to ecclesiastical studies with such indefatigable ardour that in the course of one sleepless night he has perused the four gospels, the Catholic Epistles, and the Epistles of the Romans.
Ardant in the prosecution of heresy, Carol auspiciously opened his reign by oppressing the novations, the most innocent and harmless of the sectories.
Without any legal sentence, without any royal mandate, the patriarch at the dawn of the day led a seditious multitude to the attack of the synagogues.
Such crimes would have deserved the animate version of the magistrate, but in this promiscuous outrage, the innocent were confounded with the guilty, and Alexandria was impoverished by the loss of a wealthy and industrious colony.
The deal of Carol exposed him to the penalties of the Julian law, but in a feeble government and a superstitious age he was secure of impunity and even of praise.
Orestes complained, but his just complaints were too quickly forgotten by the ministers of Theodosius, and too deeply remembered by a priest who affected Departan and continued to hate the prefect of Egypt.
A rumor was spread among the Christians that the daughter of Theon was the only obstacle to the reconciliation of the Prefect and the Archbishop, and that obstacle was speedily removed.
which oppressed the metropolitan of Europe and Asia, invaded the provinces of Antioch and Alexandria, and measured their diocese by the limits of the empire.
Exterminate with me the heretics and with you I will exterminate the Persians.
At these blasphemous sounds, the pillars of the sanctuary were shaken.
but the Vatican received with open arms the messengers of Egypt.
The vanity of Killestein was flattered by the appeal, and the partial version of a monk decided the faith of the Pope, who with his Latin clergy was ignorant of the language, the arts, and the theology of the Greeks.
Nastorius, who depended on the near approach of his Eastern friends, persisted, like his predecessor, Chrysostom, to disclaim the jurisdiction and to disobey the summons of his enemies. They hastened his trial, and his accuser presided in the seat of judgment.
68 bishops, 22 of metropolitan rank, defended his cause by a modest and temperate protest. They were excluded from the councils of their brethren.
By the vigilance of Memnon, the churches were shut against them, and a strong garrison was thrown into the cathedral.
During a busy period of three months, the emperor tried every method, except the most effectual means of indifference and contempt, to reconcile this theological quarrel.
Return to your provinces and may your private virtues repair the mischief and scandal of your meeting.
The feeble son of Arcadius was alternately swayed by his wife and sister, by the eunuchs and women of the palace. Superstition and avarice were their ruling passions, and the Orthodox chiefs were assiduous in their endeavors to alarm the former, and to gratify the latter.
but in this awful moment of the danger of the church, their vow was superseded by a more sublime and indispensable duty.
At the same time, every avenue of the throne was assaulted with gold.
The past he regretted. He was discontented with the present, and the future he had reason to dread. The Oriental bishops successfully disengaged their cause from his unpopular name, and each day decreased the number of the schismatics who revered Nestorius as the confessor of the faith.
A wandering tribe of the Blemis or Nubians invaded his solitary prison. In their retreat, they dismissed a crowd of useless captives, but no sooner had nasturias reached the banks of the Nile than he would gladly have escaped from a Roman and Orthodox city to the milder servitude of the savages.
He had never been father, lover, husband, friend.
The heart of that ex-convict was full of virginity.
His sister and his sister's children had left him only a vague and far-off memory which had finally almost completely vanished. He had made every effort to find them, and not having been able to find them, he had forgotten them.
He suffered all the pangs of a mother, and he knew not what it meant. For that great and singular movement of a heart which begins to love is a very obscure and a very sweet thing.
Only, as he was five and fifty, and coset eight years of age, all that might have been love in the whole course of his life flowed together into a sort of ineffable light.
Cozette, on her side, had also unknown to herself become another being. Poor little thing.
She felt that which she had never felt before. A sensation of expansion.
The man no longer produced on her the effect of being old or poor. She thought Jean-Vell-Jean handsome, just as she thought the huddle pretty.
Nature, a difference of fifty years, had set a profound gulf between Jean Valjean and Cusette. Destiny filled in this gulf.
To meet was to find each other.
When these two souls perceived each other, they recognized each other as necessary to each other and embraced each other closely.
Moreover, Sean Valchon had chosen his refuge well.
He had paid her six months in advance and had commissioned the old woman to furnish the chamber and dressing room as we have seen.
Week followed week. These two beings led a happy life in that huddle.
Coosette was no longer in Rags. She was in mourning.
And then he talked to her mother, and he made her pray.
He passed hours in watching her dressing and undressing her doll, and in listening to her prattle.
The best of us are not exempt from egotistical thoughts.
He had returned to prison, this time for having done right. He had quaffed fresh bitterness. Discussed and lassitude were overpowering him. Even the memory of the bishop probably suffered a temporary eclipse, though sure to reappear later on, luminous and triumphant. But, after all, that sacred memory was growing dim.
Who knows whether Jean-Foules-John had not been on the eve of growing discouraged and of falling once more.
Alas, he walked with no less indecision than Cozet.
He protected her, and she strengthened him.
He was that child's day, and she was his prop.
Forgot into the name of Jillian, the lovely captive.
Worse and worse, he is even presumed to be the captive sweetheart who weadles the flower, the ring, and the prison key out of the strict virgins for his own purposes, and flies with her at last in his shallop across the sea to live with her happily ever after.
But this is a fallacy.
The wandering singer approaches them with his loot.
The Emperor's Daughter.
Lady, lady, my rose-white lady, but will you not hear around, old lady?
Oh, if you play a surround-al singer, how can that harm the Emperor's daughter?
She would not speak that we danced a week, with her thoughts a thousand leagues over the water. Singer, singer, wandering singer, oh my honey-sweet singer.
But if I play you around a lady, get me a gift from the Emperor's daughter. Her finger ring for my finger ring, though she's pledged a thousand leagues over the water. Lady, lady, my fair lady, oh, my rose-white lady.
The Wandering Singer.
But I did once have the luck to hear and see the lady played an entirety. The children had been granted leave to play just one more game before bedtime. And of course they chose the longest and played it without missing a syllable.
The ladies in yellow dresses stand again in a ring about the Emperor's daughter, and are for the last time accosted by the singer with his lute.
The Wandering Singer.
I'll play for you now, near the Apple Bow, and you shall dream on the lawn so shady. Lady, lady, my fair lady, oh, my Apple Gold Lady.
The ladies.
Now you may play a serrana singer, a dream of night for an apple-gold lady, for the fruit is now on the apple-bow, and the moon is up and the lawn is shady. Singer, singer, wandering singer, oh my honey sweet singer!
Once more, the singer plays in the lady's dance, but one by one they fall asleep to the drowsy music, and then the singer steps into the ring and unlocks the tower and kisses the emperor's daughter.
I don't know what becomes of the ladies.
Bedtime children.
You see, the treatment is a trifle fanciful.
how we must simplify.
It seems to me more and more as I live longer. That most poetry and most literature, and particularly the literature of the past, is discordant with the vastness and variety, the reserves and resources and recuperations of life as we live it today.
It is the expression of life under cruder and more rigid conditions than ours, lived by people who loved and hated more naively, aged sooner and died younger than we do.
We range wider, last longer, and escape more and more from intensity towards understanding.
And already this astounding blow begins to take its place among other events, as a thing strange and terrible indeed, but related to all the strangeness and mystery of life, part of the universal mysteries of despair and futility and death that have troubled by consciousness since childhood.
For a time the death of Mary obscured her life for me. But now her living presence is more in my mind again.
It was that idea of waste that dominated my mind in a strange interview I had with Justin.
I became grotesquely anxious to assure him that indeed she and I had been, as they say, innocent throughout our last day together.
You were wrong in all that," I said. She kept her faith with you.
We never planned to meet and when we met
If we had been brother and sister, indeed there was nothing.
But now it doesn't seem to matter very much.
And it is upon this effect of sweet and beautiful possibilities, caught in the net of animal jealousies and thoughtless motives and ancient rigid institutions, that I would end this writing.
In Mary, it seems to me, I found both womanhood and fellowship. I found what many have dreamt of. Love and friendship freely given. And I could do nothing but clutch at her to make her my possession.
What alternative was there for her?
She was destroyed, not merely by the unconcerned, undisciplined passions of her husband and her lover, but by the vast tradition that sustains and enforces the subjugation of her sex.
illustration, long pepper.
Long pepper. This is the produce of a different plant from that which produces the black. It consisting of the half-ripe flower heads of what naturalists call Piper Longum and Chaba.
Originally, the most valuable of these were found in the Spice Islands or Moluchus of the Indian Ocean and were highly prized by the nations of antiquity.
The long pepper is less aromatic than the black, but its oil is more pungent.
Then add the yolks of the eggs well beaten. Stir them to the sauce, but do not allow it to boil and serve very hot.
Mode. Pair and slice the cucumbers as for the table. Sprinkle well with salt and let them remain for 24 hours. Strain off the liquor, pack in jars, a thick layer of cucumbers and salt alternately. Tie down closely and when wanted for use, take out the quantity required.
Illustration, the cucumber.
Mode. Choose the greenest cucumbers and those that are most free from seeds. Put them in strong salt and water with a cabbage leaf to keep them down. Tie a paper over them and put them in a warm place till they are yellow. Then wash them and set them over the fire in fresh water with a very little salt and another cabbage leaf over them. Cover very closely, but take care they do not boil.
Put the sugar with 1-quarter pint of water in a saucepan over the fire. Remove the scum as it rises and add the lemon peel and ginger with the outside scraped off. When the syrup is tolerably thick, take it off the fire and when cold, wipe the cucumbers dry and put them in.
Seasonable. This recipe should be used in June, July, or August.
Solid rocks of salt are also found in various parts of the world and in the country of Chester contains many of these mines and it is from there that much of our salt comes.
Some springs are so highly impregnated with salt as to have received the name of brine springs and are supposed to have become so by passing through the salt rocks below ground and thus dissolving a portion of this mineral substance.
mode. Put the milk in a very clean saucepan and let it boil.
Beat the eggs, stir to them the milk and pounded sugar, and put the mixture into a jug.
Place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water. Keep stirring well until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil or it will curdle.
when it is sufficiently thick, take it off as it should not boil.
illustration, the lemon.
The lemon. This fruit is a native of Asia and is mentioned by Virgil as an antidote to poison.
It is heartier than the orange and, as one of the Citrant tribe, was brought into Europe by the Arabians.
The lemon was first cultivated in England in the beginning of the 17th century and is now often to be found in our greenhouses.
This juice, which is called citric acid, may be preserved in bottles for a considerable time by covering it with a thin stratum of oil.
to pickle eggs.
Seasonable. This should be made about Easter as at this time eggs are plentiful and cheap.
A store of pickled eggs will be found very useful and ornamental in serving with many first and second course dishes.
illustration ginger
The ginger plant known to naturalists as Zingiber aficionale is a native of the east and west Indies.
In Jamaica, it flowers about August or September, fading about the end of the year.
Beat the yolks of the other two eggs, add them with a little flour and salt to those pounded. Mix all well together and roll into balls.
Boil them before they are put into the soup or other dish they may be intended for.
Lemon juice may be added at pleasure.
Put the whole of the ingredients into a bottle and let it remain for a fortnight in a warm place, occasionally shaking up the contents.
They ought to be taken up in autumn and when dried in the house will keep till spring.
Add the wine and if necessary, a seasoning of cayenne when it will be ready to serve.
Note, the wine in this sauce may be omitted and an onion sliced and fried of a nice brown substituted for it.
Simmer for a minute or two and serve in a terrain.
It's sufficient to serve with 5 or 6 mackerel.
Various dishes are frequently ornamented and garnished with its graceful leaves and these are sometimes boiled in soups, although it is more usually confined in English cochre to the mackerel sauce as here given.
Force meat for cold savory pies.
Pound well and bind with one or two eggs which have been previously beaten and strained.
illustration, margin.
It is a native of Portugal and when its leaves are used as a seasoning herb, they have an agreeable aromatic flavor.
Mode. Mix all the ingredients well together, carefully mince them very finely. Beat up the egg, moisten with it, and work the whole very smoothly together.
sufficient for a moderate sized tatic or pike.
Now beat and strain the eggs. Work these up with the other ingredients and the forest meat will be ready for use.
boil for five minutes, mince it very small and mix it with the other ingredients.
If it should be in an unsound state, it must be on no account made use of.
illustration, Basil.
Other sweet herbs are cultivated for purposes of medicine and perfumery. They are most grateful both to the organs of taste and smelling. And to the aroma derived from them is due in a great measure, the sweet and exhilarating fragrance of our flowery needs.
French force meet.
It will be well to state in the beginning of this recipe that French force meat or canals consists of the blending of three separate processes namely, Panetta, Utter, and whatever meat you intend using. Panetta.
Place it over the fire, keep constantly stirring to prevent its burning, and when quite dry, put in a small piece of butter.
Put the other into a stew pan with sufficient water to cover it. Let it stew gently till quite done. When take it out to cool.
illustration, pistol and mortar.
When the three ingredients are properly prepared, pound them all together in a mortar for some time. For the more canals are pounded, the more delicate they are.
If the quinels are not firm enough, add the yolk of another egg but omit the white which only makes them hollow and puffy inside.
Anyone with the slightest pretensions to refined cookery must, in this particular, implicitly follow the example of our friends across the channel.
fried breadcrumbs
The fat they are fried in should be clear and the crumbs should not have the slightest appearance or taste of having been in the least degree burnt.
fried bread for borders.
When quite crisp, dip one side of the ciput into the beaten white of an egg mixed with a little flour and place it on the edge of the dish.
Continue in this manner till the border is completed, arranging the sepots of pale and a dark one alternately.
Mode. Cut up the onion and carrot into small rings and put them into a stew pan with the herbs, mushrooms, bay leaf, cloves and mace. Add the butter and simmer the whole very gently over a slow fire until the onion is quite tender.
Sufficient, half this quantity for two slices of salmon.
illustration sage
Fuchs brought up a sack of potatoes and a piece of cured pork from the cellar. And grandmother packed some loaves of Saturday's bread, a jar of butter, and several pumpkin pies in the straw of the wagon-box.
Occasionally, one of the horses would tear off, with his teeth, a plant full of blossoms, and walk along munching it, the flowers nodding in time to his bites as he ate down toward them.
It's no better than a badger hole. No proper dugout at all.
Now, why is that auto?
Presently, against one of those banks, I saw a sort of shed, thatched with the same wine-colored grass that grew everywhere.
Very glad, very glad. She ejaculated.
Go get fixed up comfortable after a while, Mrs. Shamirita. Make good house.
My grandmother always spoke in a very loud tone to foreigners, as if they were deaf.
She made Mrs. Shamir to understand the friendly intention of our visit, and the Bohemian woman handled the loaves of bread, and even smelled them, and examined the pies with lively curiosity, exclaiming, much good, much thank.
The family had been living on corn cakes and sorghum molasses for three days.
I remembered what the conductor had said about her eyes.
Her skin was brown too, and in her cheeks she had a glow of rich dark color.
Even from a distance, one could see that there was something strange about this boy.
He was born like that. The others are smart.
Ambrose? You make good farmer.
He struck Ambrose on the back, and the boy smiled knowingly.
At that moment, the father came out of the hole in the bank.
It was so long that it bushed out behind his ears and made him look like the old portraits I remember in Virginia.
I noticed how white and well shaped his own hands were.
We stood panting on the edge of the ravine, looking down at the trees and bushes that grew below us.
The wind was so strong that I had to hold my hat on, and the girl's skirts were blown out before them.
She looked at me, her eyes fairly blazing with things she could not say.
She pointed into the gold cottonwood tree behind his top we stood and said again, what name?
Antonya pointed up to the sky and questioned me with her glance.
She got up on her knees and wrung her hands.
She was quick and very eager.
We were so deep in the grass that we could see nothing but the blue sky over us and the gold tree in front of us.
After Antonya had said the new words over and over, she wanted to give me a little chaste silver ring she wore on her middle finger.
When I came up, he touched my shoulder and looked searchingly down into my face for several seconds.
I became somewhat embarrassed, for I was used to being taken for granted by my elders.
In aristocratic communities, the people readily give themselves up to bursts of tumultuous and boisterous gaiety, which shake off at once the recollection of their privations. The natives of democracies are not fond of being thus violently broken in upon, and they never lose sight of their own selves without regret.
An American, instead of going in a leisure hour to dance merrily at some place of public resort, as the fellows of his calling continue to do throughout the greater part of Europe, shut himself up at home to drink.
I believe the seriousness of the Americans arises partly from their pride.
This is more especially the case amongst those free nations which form democratic communities.
Then there are in all classes a very large number of men constantly occupied with the serious affairs of the government, and those whose thoughts are not engaged in the direction of the Commonwealth are wholly engrossed by the acquisition of a private fortune.
I do not believe in such republics any more than in that of Plato, or if the things we read of really happened, I do not hesitate to affirm that these supposed democracies were composed of very different elements from ours, and that they had nothing in common with the letter except their name.
In aristocracy's, every man has one sole object which he unceasingly pursues. But amongst democratic nations, the existence of man is more complex. The same mind will almost always embrace several objects at the same time, and these objects are frequently wholly foreign to each other. As it cannot know them all well, the mind is readily satisfied with imperfect notions of each.
Chapter 16 Why the national vanity of the Americans is more restless and captures than that of the English?
The Americans in their intercourse with strangers appear impatient with the smallest center and insatiable praise.
If I say to an American that the country he lives in is a fine one. I, he replies, there is not its fellow in the world."
If I applaud the freedom which its inhabitants enjoy, he answers, freedom is a fine thing, but few nations are worthy to enjoy it.
In aristocratic countries, the great possess immense privileges upon which their pride rests without seeking to rely upon the lesser advantages which accrue to them.
They therefore entertain a calm sense of their superiority. They do not dream of fountain privileges which everyone perceives, as no one contests. And these things are not sufficiently new to them to be made topics of conversation.
They stand unmoved in their solitary greatness, well assured that they are seen of all the world without any effort to show themselves off, and that no one will attempt to drive them from that position.
When an aristocracy carries on the public affairs, its national pride naturally assumes this reserved, indifferent and hoity form, which is imitated by all the other classes of the nation.
These persons then, displayed towards each other, precisely the same pure old jealousies which animate the men of democracies, the same eagerness to snatch the smallest advantages which are equals contested, and the same desire to parade ostentatiously those of which they were in possession.
The two stray kittens gradually make themselves at home.
Somehow or other, Cat has taught them that he's in charge here, and he just chases them for fun now and again when he's not busy sleeping.
She doesn't pick them up, but just having them in the room sure doesn't give her asthma.
When are you getting rid of these cats? I'm not fixing to start an annex to Kate's cat home.
Right away, when I bring home my new program, he says, how come you're taking one less course this half?
I explain that I'm taking music and also biology, algebra, English and French. Music. These notes.
Pop, it's a course.
He does, and for once I win around. I keep music for this semester.
I'll be lucky if I have time to breathe.
Sometimes schools do let kids take a lot of soft courses and then they're out on a limb later. Huh.
So, he cares. Huh.
Besides, says Tom. Half the reason you and your father are always bickering is that you're so much alike. Me? Like him? Sure.
As long as there's a bone on the floor, the two of you worry it.
I get the pillows comfortably arranged on the floor with a big bottle of soda and a bag of popcorn with an easy reach.
Pop goes right on tuning his channel.
You're getting altogether too upset about these programs. Stop it and behave yourself.
It's your fault. Mop it up yourself.
I hear the TV going for a few minutes. Then Pop turns it off and goes in the kitchen to talk to Mom.
Well, I don't think you should turn a guy's TV program off in the middle without even finding out about it.
I look at my watch. It's a quarter to 11.
I turn off the television set. I've lost track of what's happening and it doesn't seem to be the grandfather who's a spook after all.
It's the first time Hilda has been to our house, and Tom introduces her around.
I told Tom we shouldn't come so late to Tilda.
Tom says thanks and looks at Hilda and she blushes. Really.
Tom drinks a little more coffee and then he goes on. The trouble is, I can't get married on this flower shop job.
You know, I'd get drafted in a year or two anyway.
I've decided to enlist in the Army.
I'll have to check some more, says Tom.
Here's to you, a long, happy life.
How infinite the wealth of love and hope garnered in these same tiny treasure houses, and oh.
What bankrupts in the world we feel when death, like some remorseless creditor seizes on all we fondly thought our own. The Twins.
The ghoul-like fever was not to be braved with impunity and balked of its prey.
The board, not so formidable as she had imagined, had inquired into her case, and, instead of sending her to Stoke Claypole, her husband's buckingham-shire parish, as she had dreaded, had agreed to pay her rent.
Margaret met Jim Wilson several days after his brothers were seriously ill and heard from him the state of things at his home.
She stopped with her hand on the latch of the Wilson's door to still her beating heart, and listened to the hushed quiet within.
She opened the door softly. There sat Mrs. Wilson in the old rocking-chair, with one sick, deathlike boy lying on her knee, crying without let or pause. But softly, gently, as fearing to disturb the troubled gasping child while behind her, old Alice let her fast-dropping tears fall down on the dead body of the other twin, which she was laying out on a board placed on a sort of sofasatee in the corner of the room.
Over the child which yet breathed the father bent, watching anxiously for some ground of hope where hope there was none.
Is there any chance for the other one? Thank you.
But earnest as the father was in watching the yet-living, he had eyes and ears for all that concerned the dead, and sprang gently up, and took his dead son on his hard couch in his arms with tender strength, and carried him upstairs, as if afraid of wakening him.
Wishing him said Mary in a tone of inquiry.
Then the mother lifted up her voice and wept.
Her cries brought her husband down to try with his aching heart to comfort hers.
Mary and Alice drew near the fire and stood in quiet sorrow for some time.
Then Alice broke the silence by saying,
For Christmas time, I was as full as full could be of going home for good and all. You and herd how I've wished it this terrible long time.
But he stayed long there, and at last his sturdy frame shook with his strong agony.
Oh, Gem, don't give away, so I cannot bear to see you.
He did not speak, as though fearing to destroy by sound or motion the happiness of that moment, when her soft hands touched, thrilled through his frame, and her silvery voice was whispering tenderness in his ear.
Don't, Jim, please, don't whisper to you again, believing that his silence was only another form of grief.
Mary, I almost loathe myself when I feel I would not give up this minute when my brothers lie dead and father and mother are in such trouble for all my life that's past and gone and Mary, as she tried to release her hand. You know what makes me feel so blessed.
He remained upstairs until after the early dawn showed Mary that she need have no fear of going home through the deserted and quiet streets to try and get a little sleep before work hour.
So leaving kind messages to George and Jane Wilson and hesitating whether she might dare to send a few kind words to Jim and deciding that she had better not, she stepped out into the bright morning light, so fresh a contrast to the darkened room where death had been.
Her thoughts ran on Jim's manner in words. Not but what she had known the tale they told for many a day. But still she wished he had not put it so plainly.
I cannot think what possesses me, that I must always be wanting to comfort him when he's downcast, and that I must go meddling with him tonight, when sure enough it was his aunt's place to speak to him.
I think I cannot go right, for I either check myself, till I'm downright cross to him, or else I speak just natural, and that's too kind and tender by half.
But will he think before it?
There was something of keen, practical shrewdness about her, which contrasted very bewitchingly with the simple, foolish, unworably ideas she had picked up from the romances which Miss Simmons' young ladies were in the habit of recommending to each other. Yes.
The old leaven infused years ago by her aunt Esther fermented in her little bosom, and perhaps saw the more for her father's aversion to the rich and the gentle.
It was a comfort to her when scolded by Miss Simmons to think of the day when she would drive up to the door in her own carriage to order her gowns from the hasty tempered yet kind dressmaker.
But the best of her plans, the holiest, that which in some measure redeemed the vanity of the rest were those relating to her father, her dear father. Now oppressed with care and always a disheartened, gloomy person,
They sought about the house most of the day, as if it were Sunday, greasing their boots, mending their suspenders, plating whiplashes.
Anyway, he would never allow one of his horses to be put to such a strain.
I had wanted to get some picture books for Yulka in Antonia. Even Yoko was able to read a little now.
She cut squares of cotton cloth and we sewed them together into a book.
On the white pages I grouped Sunday school cards and advertising cards which I had brought from my old country.
When he mounted his horse at the door, I saw that he had a hatchet slung to his belt, and he gave Grandmother a meaning look, which told me he was planning a surprise for me.
I put on my cap and ran out to meet Jake.
He used to help my father cut Christmas trees for me in Virginia, and he had not forgotten how much I liked them.
By the time we had placed the cold, fresh smelling little tree in a corner of the sitting room, it was already Christmas Eve.
From under the lining, he now produced a collection of brilliantly colored paper figures, several inches high, and stiff enough to stand alone.
I can see them now, exactly as they looked, working about the table in the lamplight. Jake, with his heavy feature so rudely molded that his face seemed somehow unfinished. Otto, with his half ear, and the savage scar that made his upper lip curl so ferociously under his twisted moustache.
Grandfather came down wearing a white shirt and his Sunday coat.
Morning prayers were longer than usual.
He gave thanks for our food and comfort, and prayed for the poor and destitute in great cities, where the struggle for life was harder than it was here with us.
Because he talked so little, his words had a peculiar force. They were not worn dull from constant use.
All afternoon he sat in the dining room.
At about four o'clock, a visitor appeared. Mr. Shimurda, wearing his rabbit-skin cap in collar, and new mittens his wife had knitted.
He sat still and a passive, his head resting against the back of the wooden rocking chair, his hands relaxed upon the arms.
His face had a look of weariness and pleasure like that of sick people when they feel relief from pain.
He made the sign of the cross over me, put on his cap, and went off in the dark.
The week following Christmas brought in a thaw, and by New Year's Day all the world about us was a broth of grey slush, and the guttered slope between the windmill and the barn was running black water.
It was the first time Mrs. Shamurda had been to our house, and she ran about examining our carpets and curtains and furniture, all the while commenting upon them to her daughter in an envious, complaining tone.
Your mama, I said angrily, wants other people's things.
For Ambrosch, my mama come here.
But you see, a body never knows what traits poverty might bring out in them.
They began to laugh boisterously when they saw me calling.
You've got a birthday present this time, Jim, and no mistake.
She was four years older than I, to be sure, and had seen more of the world. But I was a boy and she was a girl, and I resented her protecting manner.
This change came about from an adventure we had together.
One day when I rode over to the Schmeritas, I found Antonya starting off on foot for Russian Peters House to borrow a spade and brush needed.
There had been another black frost the night before, and the air was clear and heady as wine.
It was on one of these gravel beds that I met my adventure.
I whirled round and there on one of those dry gravel beds was the biggest snake I had ever seen.
I know I'm just awful Jim, I was so scared.
I never know you was so brave, Jim. She went on comfortably.
A faint, fetid smell came from him, and a thread of green liquid oozed from his crushed head.
Look, Tony, that's his poison, I said.
I explained to Antonya how this meant that he was 24 years old, that he must have been there when white men first came, left on from Buffalo and Indian times.
We decided that Antonya should ride dude home and I would walk.
I followed with a spade over my shoulder, dragging my snake.
Otto Fuchs was the first one we met.
You could stand right up and talk to you. He could. Did he fight hard?
I don't winked at me.
A snake of his size and fighting trim would be more than any boy could handle.
Peter told his troubles to Mr. Shimerida. He was unable to meet a note which fell due on the 1st of November, had to pay an exorbitant bonus on renewing it, and to give a mortgage on his pigs and horses and even his milk cow.
Peter could give no very clear account of his transactions with Cutter.
She asked Peter to wait a moment, and when she came back from the kitchen, she brought a bag of sandwiches and donuts for us.
We lay still and did not talk.
The little house on the hillside was so much the color of the night that we could not see it as we came up the draw.
They made me think of defeated armies retreating, or of ghosts who were trying desperately to get in for shelter, and then went moaning on.
I could not take my eyes off the man in the bed.
The sharp smell of spirits went through the room.
It seemed to me that he despised him for being so simple and docile.
The sick man raged and shook his fist.
he seemed to be cursing people who had wronged him.
Quickly, it was covered with bright red spots. I thought I had never seen any blood so bright.
He lay patiently fighting for breath like a child with croup.
Antony's father uncovered one of his long bony legs and rubbed it rhythmically.
From our bench, we could see what a hollow case his body was.
Gradually, relief came to all of us.
Without a word, Peter got up and lit his lantern.
Mr. Shamera went with him.
After the ceremony at the church, the party went to a dinner given by the parents of the bride.
The first howls were taken up and echoed and with quickening repetitions.
A black drove came up over the hill behind the wedding party.
Something happened to the hindmost sledge. The driver lost control. He was probably very drunk. The horses left the road. The sledge was caught up in a clump of trees and overturned.
The shrieks that followed made everybody sober.
The road was clear and white and the groom's three blacks went like the wind.
There are only three sledges left, he whispered.
And the wolves, Pavel asked, enough for all of us.
They were within a few miles of their village now.
Yes. How many?
20-30-Nuff
Now his middle horse was being almost dragged by the other two.
Pavel knocked him over the side of the sledge and threw the girl after him.
Peter, crouching in the front seat, saw nothing.
The first thing either of them noticed was a new sound that broke into the clean air. Louder than they had ever heard it before, the bell of the monastery of their own village, ringing for early prayers.
They were run out of their village.
Wherever they went, the story followed them.
They worked in Chicago, Des Moines, Fort Wayne, but they were always unfortunate.
During the auction, he went about with his head down and never lifted his eyes.
Everyone said Peter kissed the cow before she was led away by her new owner.
The loss of his two friends had a depressing effect upon old Mr. Shamera.
When he was out hunting, he used to go into the empty log house and sit there, brooding.
This cabin was his hermitage until the winter snows penned him in his cave.
Throughout the century, the power of the church was constantly on the increase and is visible in many important changes.
The ancestors of the present pretender, Congol, surnamed the squint-eyed, had twice received and cherished the licentious bards when under the ban of Tara, and his popularity with that still powerful order was one prop of his ambition.
It is pretty clear also that the last rally of druidism against Christianity took place behind his banner on the plane of Moira.
The poets of succeeding ages have dwelt much in detail on the occurrences of this memorable day.
Like the two kings of Sparta, they ran jointly, dividing between them the laborers and cares of state.
It was the season when the ancient sun god had been accustomed to receive his annual ablations, and we can well believe that those whose hearts still tremble that the name of bell must have connected the eclipse and the plague with the revolution in the national worship and the overthrow of the ancient gods on that plane of prostration, where they had so long received the homage of an entire people.
Lastly, the royal brothers fell themselves victims to the epidemic, which so sadly signalizes their reign.
The only conflicts that occurred in Irish soil with a Pictish or an Anglo-Saxon force, if we accept those who formed a contingent of Congol's army at Moira, occurred in the time of the hospitable Finakda.
As leading to the mention of other interesting events, we must set this inroad clearly before the reader.
The Saxons of Kent and the Southern Kingdoms generally were converted by missionaries from France or Rome, or native preachers of the first or second Christian generation. Those of Northumbria recognized as their apostles St. Aiden and St. Cuthbert, two fathers from Iona.
The Kingdom of Northumbria, as the name implies, embrace nearly all the country from the Humber to the Pictish border.
The barren rock, about three miles in length, was covered with an amnastic buildings, and its cemetery was already adorned with the tombs of saints and kings.
Now, every missionary that ever went out for myona had taught that to reduce Christians to slavery was wholly inconsistent with a belief in the doctrines of the gospel.
While the liberated exiles rejoiced on the plain of Mieth, the tent of the abbot of Iona was pitched on the wrath of Tara. A fact which would seem to indicate that already, in little more than a century since the interdict had fallen on it, the edifices which made so fine a show in the days of Patrick were ruined and uninhabitable.
So slow and patient is the process by which Christianity infuses itself into the social life of a converted people.
Here, the holy prelate of ferns met him and related a vision in which he had been instructed to demand the abolition of the Impost.
The tribute was at this period enormous. 15,000 head of cattle annually.
St. Mollink survived him three years, and St. Ademnon so intimately connected with his reign, ten years.
Nothing could be more natural than such an assembly in such a place at such a period.
Kirkley Tham Yeast.
1717
to make good homemade bread.
1718
Mode. Put the flower into a large earthenware bowl or deep pan. Then with a strong metal or wooden spoon hollow out the middle. But do not clear it entirely away from the bottom of the pan, as in that case the sponge, or leaven, as it was formerly termed, would stick to it, which it ought not to do.
Next take either a large tablespoon full of brewer's yeast, which has been rendered solid by mixing it with plenty of cold water, and letting it afterwards stand to settle for a day and night, or nearly an ounce of German yeast. Put it into a large basin and proceed to mix it so that it shall be as smooth as cream, with three-quarter pint of warm milk and water, or with water only, though even a very little milk will much improve
Look at it from time to time. When it has been laid for nearly an hour, and when the yeast has risen and broken through the flower so that bubbles appear in it, you will know that it is ready to be made up into dough.
Then place the pan on a strong chair or dresser or table of convenient height. Pour into the sponge the remainder of the warm milk and water. Stir into it as much of a flour as you can with the spoon. Then wipe it out clean with your fingers and lay it aside.
Turn it then onto a paste board or very clean dresser, and with a large sharp knife divide it in two. Make it up quickly into loaves and dispatch it to the oven. Make one or two incisions across the top of the loaves as they will rise more easily if this be done.
illustration Italian millet
Italian millet, or great Indian millet, is cultivated in Egypt and Nubia, where it is called Dura, and is used as human food as well as for the fermentation of beer.
It will grow on poor soils and is extremely productive.
It has been introduced into Italy where they make a coarse bread from it, and it is also employed in pastry and puddings. They also use it for feeding horses and domestic fowls.
A yellow variety called Golden Millet is sold in the grocer's shops for making puddings and is very delicate and wholesome.
Another advantage the Redweeds possess is their comparative immunity from the attacks of mildew and fly.
Mode. Boil the rice and water until it is quite tender. Pour off the water and put the rice before it is cold to the flour.
illustration, maze plant.
Maize. Next to wheat and rice, maize is the grain most used in the nourishment of man.
If carried any distance, it should be stored away in airtight vessels.
Some of the preparations of maize flour are very good, and when partaken in moderation, suitable food for almost everybody.
Mode. Let the tartaric acid and salt be reduced to the finest possible powder. Then mix them well with the flour.
Sour milk or buttermilk may be used, but then a little less acid will be needed.
Excellent roles.
Hot rolls.
1724.
When they are quite hot, divide them lengthwise into three. Put some thin flakes of good butter between the slices, press the rolls together, and put them in the oven for a minute or two, but not longer, or the butter would oil. Take them out of the oven, spread the butter equally over, divide the rolls in half, and put them on to a very hot, clean dish, and send them instantly to table.
to make dry toast.
Never use new bread for making any kind of toast, as it eats heavy and besides is very extravagant.
Move it backwards and forwards until the bread is nicely colored. Then turn it and toast the other side. And do not place it so near the fire that it blackens.
to make hot buttered toast, 1726.
A loaf of household bread, about two days old, answers for making toast, better than cottage bread. The latter not being a good shape and too crusty for the purpose.
Cut as many nice even slices as may be required, rather more than one-quarter inch in thickness, and toast them before a very bright fire without allowing the bread to blacken, which spoils the appearance and flavor of all toast.
Sawyer recommends that each slice should be cut into pieces as soon as it is buttered and when all are ready, that they should be piled lightly on the dish they are intended to be served on.
He says that by cutting through four or five slices at a time, all the butter is squeezed out of the upper ones while the bottom one is swimming in fat liquid.
Muffins and crumpets should always be served on separate dishes and both toasted and served as expeditiously as possible.
sufficient, allow two crumpets to each person.
Plain Buns, 1729.
Mode. Put the flour into a basin. Mix the sugar well with it. Make a hole in the center. And stir in the yeast and milk, which should be lukewarm. With enough of the flour to make it the thickness of cream.
From 15 to 20 minutes will be required to bake them nicely.
These buns may be varied by adding a few currents, candied peel, or caraway seeds to the other ingredients, and the above mixture answers for hot cross buns by putting in a little ground allspice, and by pressing a tin mold in the form of a cross in the center of the bun.
sufficient to make 12 buns seasonable at any time. Light buns.
illustration buns
Victoria Buns, 1732
Mode. Whisk the egg, stir in the sugar, and beat these ingredients well together. Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the ground rice, currants, and candied peel, and as much flour as will make it of such a consistency that it may be rolled into seven or eight balls.
Italian Rusks.
They should be kept in a closed tin canister in a dry place to preserve their crispness.
It is not cultivated in England being principally confined to the east.
When we take into account that the Arabians are fond of lizards and locusts as articles of food, their cuisine altogether is scarcely a tempting one.
1734.
illustration, rusks.
Mode. Put the milk and butter into a saucepan and keep shaking it round until the ladder is melted.
When cold, they should be put into tin canisters to keep them dry. And if intended for the cheese course, the sifted sugar should be omitted.
The narrative, it may be, is woven of so humble a texture as to require this advantage, and at the same time, to render it the more difficult of attainment.
In good faith, however, he is not sufficiently imaginative to flatter himself with the slightest hope of this kind.
The author has considered it hardly worth his while, therefore, relentlessly to impale the story with its moral as with an iron rod, or rather as by sticking a pin through a butterfly. Thus it wants to pry the good of life and causing it to stiffen in an ungainly and unnatural attitude.
If permitted by the historical connection, which those slight was essential to his plan, the author would very willingly have avoided anything of this nature.
He trusts not to be considered as unpardonably offending by laying out a street that infringes upon nobody's private rights, and appropriating a lot of land which had no visible owner, and building a house of materials long in use for constructing castles in the air.
The enclosure had formerly been very extensive, but was now contracted within small compass, and hemmed about, partly by high wooden fences, and partly by the outbuildings of houses that stood on another street.
The white double rose bush had evidently been propped up anew against the house since the commencement of the season, and a pear tree and three damson trees, which, except a row of current bushes, constituted the only varieties of fruit, poor marks of the recent amputation of several superfluous or defective limbs.
There were also a few species of antique and hereditary flowers and no very flourishing condition, but scrupulously weeded, as if some person, either out of love or curiosity, had been anxious to bring them to such perfection as they were capable of attaining.
Summer squashes, almost in their golden blossom, cucumbers now evincing a tendency to spread away from the main stock and ramble far and wide. Two or three rows of string beans, and as many more that were about to festoon themselves on poles, tomatoes occupying a site so sheltered and sunny that the plants were already gigantic and promised an early and abundant harvest.
Phoebe wondered whose care and toil it could have been that had planted these vegetables and kept the soil so clean and orderly.
Bees, too, strange to say, had thought it worth their while to come hither, possibly from the range of hives beside some farmhouse miles away.
This was a fountain set round with the rim of old mossy stones and paved in its bed with what appeared to be a sort of mosaic work of variously colored pebbles.
It now contained only Chanticlere, his two wives, and a solitary chicken.
It was evident that the race had degenerated, like many a noble race besides, in consequence of too strict a watchfulness to keep it pure.
These feathered people had existed too long in their distinct variety, a fact of which the present representatives, judging by the lugubrious deportment, seemed to be aware.
They kept themselves alive unquestionably, and laid now and then an egg, and hatched a chicken, not for any pleasure of their own, but that the world might not absolutely lose what had once been so admirable a breed of fowls.
The distinguishing mark of the hens was the crest of lamentably scanty growth in these latter days, but so oddly and wickedly analogous to Hepzova's turban that Phoebe, to the poignant distress of her conscience but inevitably, was led to fancy a general resemblance betwixt these forlorn bipeds and her respectable relative.
The chicken crept through the pales of the coop and ran with some show of liveliness to her feet, while Chanticlere and the ladies of his household regarded her with queer, side-long glances, and then croaked one to another as if communicating their sage opinions of her character.
So wise, as well as antique, was their aspect as to give colour to the idea, not merely that they were the descendants of a time-honoured race, but that they had existed in their individual capacity ever since the house of the Seven Gables was founded, and were somehow mixed up with its destiny.
He held a hoe in his hand, and while Phoebe was gone in quest of the crumbs, had begun to busy himself with drawing up fresh earth about the roots of the tomatoes.
They have known me much longer, but never honor me with any familiarity, though hardly a day passes without my bringing them food.
Miss Hepsoba, I suppose, will interweave the fact with her other traditions, and set it down that the fowls know you to be a pension.
Ah, but these hens answer the young man. These hens of aristocratic lineage would scorn to understand the vulgar language of a barnyard fowl.
I prefer to think, and so would Miss Hepsova, that they recognize the family tone, for you are a pension.
My name is Phoebe Pensions, said the girl, with a manner of some reserve, for she was aware that her new acquaintance could be no other than the DeGero typist, of whose lawless propensities the old maid had given her a disagreeable idea.
I turn up the Earth by way of pastime.
It is like a bandage over one's eyes to come into it.
If you would permit me, said the artist, looking at Phoebe, I should like to try whether the DeGero type can bring out disagreeable traits on a perfectly amiable face.
Most of my likenesses do look unamiable, but the very sufficient reason I fancy is because the originals are so.
There is a wonderful insight in Heaven's broad and simple sunshine.
While we give it credit only for depicting the Merist surface, it actually brings out the secret character with the truth that no painter would ever venture upon, even could he detect it.
Yet the original wares to calm in eyes are very different expression.
He exhibited a DeGero-type miniature in a Morocco case.
Phoebe merely glanced at it and gave it back.
I can assure you that this is a modern face and one which you will very probably meet.
The sun, as you see, tells quite another story, and will not be coped out of it, after half a dozen patients' attempts on my part.
Here we have the man, sly, subtle, hard, imperious, and with all cold as ice. Look at that eye.
And yet, if you could only see the benign smile of the original.
Well, I don't wish to see it any more observed Phoebe turning away her eyes. It is certainly very like the old portrait.
If the original is still in the world, I think he might defy the sun to make him look stern and hard.
Is there nothing wild in the eye, continued whole grave? So earnestly that it embarrassed Phoebe, as did also the quiet freedom with which he presumed on their so recent acquaintance.
It is nonsense, said Phoebe, a little impatiently, for us to talk about a picture which you have never seen.
Since you are a friend of my cousin Hepzibas, you should ask her to show you the picture.
So we will be fellow laborers, somewhat on the community system.
She did not altogether like him.
Oh, we joined the DeGero typist, because like an old lady's cup of tea, it is water bewitched.
She was indistinctly aware, however, that the gaunt figure of the old gentlewoman was sitting in one of the straight-back chairs, a little withdrawn from the window. The faint gleam of which showed the blanched paleness of her cheek turned sideways towards the corner.
but put it on the table in the corner of the passage.
What an instrument is the human voice.
How wonderfully responsive to every emotion of the human soul.
Fewer words than before, but with the same mysterious music in them.
Prago to bed for I am sure you must need rest.
I will sit in the parlor a while and collect my thoughts.
While thus dismissing her, the maiden lady stepped forward, kissed Phoebe, and pressed her to her heart, which beat against the girl's bosom with a strong, high, and tumultuous swell.
At some uncertain period in the depths of night, and as it were through the thin veil of a dream, she was conscious of a footstep mounting the stairs heavily, but not with force and decision.
Minney's flat, as the one floor resident apartments were then being called, was in a part of West Van Buren Street inhabited by families of laborers and clerks. Men who had come and were still coming, with the rush of population pouring in at the rate of 50,000 a year.
To carry, the sound of the little bells upon the horse cars as they tingled in and out of hearing was as pleasing as it was novel.
To him, the presence or absence of his wife's sister was a matter of indifference.
He was of a clean, saving disposition and had already paid a number of monthly installments on two lots far out on the west side.
His ambition was someday to build a house on them.
She had some slight gift of observation, in that sense, so rich in every woman, intuition.
The walls of the rooms were discordantly papered.
The floors were covered with matting and the hall laid with a thin rag carpet.
Then she walked and sang to it until Hansen disturbed in his reading came and took it.
One could see that he was very much wrapped up in his offspring.
Now, now, he said walking, there, there, and there was a certain Swedish accent noticeable in his voice.
He seemed to be thinking of something else.
Many began to explain, but her husband took this part of the conversation to himself.
You could get home easy too. It isn't very far.
She asked Mimi for ink and paper, which were upon the mantle in the dining room, and when the latter had gone to bed at ten, got out Drew's card and wrote him.
She wanted to make some reference to their relations upon the train, but was too timid.
Anything was good enough so long as it paid, say, $5 a week to begin with.
A shop girl was the destiny prefigured for the newcomer.
It was under such auspicious circumstances that she started out this morning to look for work.
Narrow boardwalks extended out, passing here a house and there a store at far intervals, eventually ending on the open prairie.
It gave an imposing appearance to most of the wholesale houses, whose offices were up on the ground floor and in plain view of the street.
These vast buildings. What were they?
He was in a fevered state of mind, owing to the blight his wife's action threatened to cast upon his entire future.
He would have to pay her the money which she would now regularly demand, or there would be trouble. It did not matter what he did.
Hurstwood walked the floor, mentally arranging the chief points of his situation.
He also thought of his managerial position.
How would the papers talk about it?
Many little wrinkles gathered between his eyes as he contemplated this and his brow moistened.
He could arrange that satisfactorily, for Kerry would be glad to wait if necessary.
He would see how things turned out tomorrow and then he would talk to her. They were going to meet as usual.
For some reason, he felt as if something might come that way and was relieved when all the envelopes had been scanned and nothing suspicious noticed.
While the danger had not lessened, it had not as yet materialized, and with him no news was good news.
So little did he consider Druah that it never once occurred to him to worry about his finding out.
He grew restless as he ruminated and then decided that perhaps it was nothing.
She had not been able to get away this morning.
He would get one today. It would probably be on his desk when he got back. He would look for it at once.
After a time, he gave up waiting and rarely headed for the Madison car.
He went in and examined his letters, but there was nothing from Kerry.
Fortunately, there was nothing from his wife either.
At 1.30 he went to Rekters for lunch and when he returned a messenger was waiting for him.
His first impulse was to write but four words in reply. Go to the devil.
But he compromised by telling the boy that there would be no reply.
Then he sat down in his chair, engaged without seeing, contemplating the result of his work.
What would she do about that? The confounded wretch.
Later, however, his old discretion asserted itself.
Something had to be done. A climax was near and she would not sit idle.
He knew her well enough to know that when she had decided upon a plan she would follow it up.
He arose from his chair and went and looked out into the street.
The long drizzle had begun. Pedestrians had turned up collars and trousers at the bottom.
Hurstwood almost exclaimed out loud at the insistency of this thing.
He put on his hat and looked around for his umbrella.
he would have some arrangement of this thing.
He began to wish that he had compromised in some way or other, that he had sent the money. Perhaps he could do it up here.
He would go in and see anyhow. He would have no row.
By the time he reached his own street, he was keenly alive to the difficulties of his situation and wished over and over that some solution would offer itself, that he could see his way out.
Then he rang the bell. No answer.
He rang again, this time harder. Still no answer.
When Hearstwood got back to his office again, he was in a greater quandary than ever.
He could hardly realize how it'd all come about.
No letter had come, no word of any kind, and yet here it was late in the evening, and she had agreed to meet him that morning.
He saw that in the excitement of recent events, he had not formulated a plan upon that score.
He was getting some big comfort out of a good cigar, but it was no panacea for the ill which affected him.
It was with great opposition after two or three hours of the most urgent mental affirmation and denial that at last he got an envelope, placed in it the requested amount, and slowly sealed it up.
Then he called Harry, the boy of all work around the place.
You take this to this address," he said, handing him the envelope, and give it to Mrs. Hurstwood. Yes, sir, said the boy.
Any answer? I guess not.
The boy hastened away and the manager fell to his musings.
He was beaten for tonight and he might just as well make the best of it.
she would take the envelope and know that she had triumphed.
If he only had that letter back, he wouldn't send it.
For relief, he arose and joined in the conversation with a few friends who were drinking.
All the time, his thoughts would run out to his home and see the scene being therein enacted.
In about an hour and three quarters, the boy returned.
He fancied as he sat at his desk that nothing would be done for a week or two. Meanwhile, he would have time to think.
How about that now? His pain at her failure to meet or write him rapidly increased as he devoted himself to the subject.
He decided to write her care of the West Side Post Office and asked for an explanation, as well as to have her meet him.
3 o'clock came, 4, 5, 6, and no letter.
The helpless manager paced the floor and grimly endured the gloom of defeat.
He saw a busy Saturday ushered out, the Sabbath in, and nothing done.
All day, the bar being closed, he rooted alone, shut out from home from the excitement of his resort, from Carrie, and without the ability to alter his condition, one Iota.
It was the worst Sunday he had spent in his life.
It seemed as if his family troubles were just beginning.
He was quite certain now that she knew he was married and was angered at his perfidy.
He had loved her earnestly enough, but now that the possibility of losing her stared him in the face, she seemed much more attractive.
He would go to her and tell her all his family complications.
He would explain to her just where he stood and how much he needed her.
He did manage to bring himself into the mood to go out to carry, but when he got in Ogden Place, he thought he saw a man watching him and went away.
He did not go within a block of the house.
He traveled over many little details and talked profoundly to everybody.
He stayed at his desk long after all others had gone and only quitted it when the night watchman on his round pulled at the front door to see if it was safely locked.
On Wednesday, he received another polite note from McGregor, James, and Hay. It read...
Dear sir, we beg to inform you that we are instructed to wait until tomorrow, Thursday at one o'clock, before filing suit against you, on behalf of Mrs. Julia Hurstwood for divorce and alimony.
very truly yours, etc. Compromise
So here it was, spread out clear before him, and now he knew what to expect.
If he didn't go and see them, they would sue him promptly.
Preface to the second edition.
This is a mistake, though a perfectly natural one.
On my return, I purposely avoided looking into it until I had sent back my last revises to the printer.
Then I had much pleasure in reading it, but was indeed surprised at the many little points of similarity between the two books, in spite of their entire independence to one another.
I regret that reviewers have, in some cases, been inclined to treat the chapters on machines as an attempt to reduce Mr. Darwin's theory to an absurdity.
I am surprised, however, that the book at which such an example of the specious misuse of analogy would seem most naturally leveled, should have occurred to no reviewer. Neither shall I mention the name of the book here, though I should fancy that the hint given will suffice.
But this had an effect of which I have little reason to complain for I was allowed almost to call them lifelong self-deceivers to their faces. And they said it was quite true, but that it did not matter.
I must not conclude without expressing my most sincere thanks to my critics and to the public for the leniency and consideration with which they have treated my adventures.
It was written in the upper Rangatata district of the Canterbury Province as it then was of New Zealand, and appeared at Christchurch in the press newspaper June 13, 1863.
I also wrote about this time the substance of what ultimately became the musical banks and the trial of a man for being in a consumption.
I see for my second preface that I took the book to Miss Yerys Chapman and Hall, May 1, 1871, and on their rejection of it, under the advice of one who has attained the highest rank among living writers, I let it sleep till I took it to Mr. Troubner early in 1872.
I attribute its unlocked for success mainly to two early favorable reviews. The first in the palm oil gazette of April 12th and the second in the spectator of April 20th.
There was also another cause.
The first edition of Iruwan sold in about three weeks. I had not taken molds and as the demand was strong it was set up again immediately.
I made a few further very trifling alterations before molds were taken, but since the summer of 1872, as new additions were from time to time wanted, they have been printed from stereos then made.
I am still fairly well satisfied with those parts of Irowan that were repeatedly rewritten, but from those that had only a single writing, I would gladly cut out some 40 or 50 pages if I could.
This however may not be for the copyright will probably expire in a little over 12 years.
If the reader will excuse me, I will say nothing of my antecedents, nor of the circumstances which led me to leave my native country. The narrative would be tedious to him and painful to myself.
It will be seen that I did not succeed in my design, and that however much I may have met with that was new and strange. I have been unable to reap any pecuniary advantage.
No one who is himself honest will doubt my being so.
I reached my destination in one of the last months of 1868, but I dare not mention the season, lest the reader should gather in which hemisphere I was.
Sheep and cattle were introduced and bred with extreme rapidity. Men took up their 50,000 or 100,000 acres of country, going inland one behind the other. Till in a few years there was not an acre between the sea and the front ranges which was not taken up. And stations either for sheep or cattle were spotted, about an intervals of some 20 or 30 miles over the whole country.
I was delighted with the country and the manner of life.
I was to see the sheep not necessarily close at hand or to get them in a single mob but to see enough of them here and there to feel easy that nothing had gone wrong. This was no difficult matter, for there were not above 800 of them and being all breeding use, they were pretty quiet.
There were a good many sheep which I knew as two or three black ewes and a black lamb or two and several others which had some distinguishing mark whereby I could tell them.
It is surprising how soon the eye becomes accustomed to missing 20 sheep out of 200 or 300.
It was a monotonous life, but it was very healthy, and one does not much mind anything when one is well.
The country was the grandest that can be imagined.
Sell lonely and so solemn, with the sad grey clouds above, and no sound save a lost lamb bleeding upon the mountainside, as though it's a little heart we're breaking.
Each must cry louder and wander farther yet. May luck be with them both that they may find their own at nightfall.
I had no money, but if I could only find workable country, I might stock it with borrowed capital, and consider myself a made man.
There was no one in the whole world who had the smallest idea. Save those who were themselves on the other side of it. If indeed there was anyone at all, could I hope to cross it?
I would try the nearer range and see how far I could go.
Shortly after passing one of these chapels we came suddenly upon a village which started up out of the mist, and I was alarmed lest I should be made an object of curiosity or dislike.
My guides, however, were well known, and the natural politeness of the people prevented them from putting me to any inconvenience. But they could not help eyeing me nor eye them.
The streets were narrow and unpaved, but very fairly clean.
The vine grew outside many of the houses and there were some with sign boards on which was painted a bottle and a glass that made me feel much at home.
Even on this ledge of human society there was a stunted growth of shoplets, which had taken root and vegetated somehow, though as in an air-American tile of the bleakest.
Each feature was finished eyelids eyelashes and ears being almost invariably perfect
Their expression was divine, and as they glanced at me timidly but with parted lips in great bewilderment, I forgot all thoughts of their conversion and feelings that were far more earthly.
Even in middle age they were still comely, and the old, great-haired women at their cottage doors had a dignity, not to say majesty of their own.
The men were as handsome as the women beautiful.
I have always delighted in and reverented beauty, but I felt simply abashed in the presence of such a splendid type, a compound of all that is best in Egyptian Greek and Italian.
The children were infinite in number and exceedingly merry. I need hardly say that they came in for their full share of the prevailing beauty.
I expressed by signs my admiration and pleasure to my guides, and they were greatly pleased.
The country was highly cultivated, every ledge being planted with chestnuts, walnuts, and apple trees, from which the apples were now gathering.
I saw a few sheep with rounded noses and enormous tails.
In about four hours of walking, from the time we started, and after passing two or three more villages, we came upon a considerable town, and my guides made many attempts to make me understand something. But I gathered no inkling of their meaning, except that I need be under no apprehension of danger.
Suffice it that I found myself taken before the Chief Magistrate, and by his orders was placed in an apartment with two other people, who were the first I had seen looking anything but well-enhanced them.
In fact, one of them was plainly very much out of health, and coughed violently from time to time in spite of manifest efforts to suppress it.
The other looked pale and ill, but he was marvelously self-contained, and it was impossible to say what was the matter with him.
They felt my pulse, they looked at my tongue, they listened at my chest, they felt all my muscles, and at the end of each operation they looked at the chief and nodded, and said something in a tone quite pleasant as though I were alright.
But by and by they came to my watch, which I had hidden away in the inmost pocket that I had, and had forgotten when they began their search.
Again, there was a very old carriage whose wheels, in spite of rust and decay, I could see, had been designed originally for iron rails.
We passed many cases and at last came to one in which there were several clocks and two or three old watches.
The design was different, but the thing was clearly the same.
This had some effect in calming him.
He began presently to relent and spoke to me in a kinder manner.
I imagine there were several kinds of old-fashioned Christmases, but it could hardly be worse than a chop in my chambers, or horror of horrors at the club, where my cousin Lucy's notion of what she calls the festive season,
Festive? Yes.
The reply was written in a sprawling feminine hand. It was a little vague.
It appeared that the terms would be five guineas, but there was no mention of the length of time which that fee would cover.
The whole thing was a trifolod.
There was nothing set about the sort of accommodation which would be provided, nothing about the kind of establishment which was maintained, or the table which was kept.
Now it is a remarkable thing that I have always had an extraordinary predilection for the name Madge. I do not know why.
I have never known a match, and yet, from my boyhood upward, I have desired to meet one.
Under such circumstances, she was hardly likely to be lively herself, but her name was Mag, and it was the accident of her Christian name which decided me to go.
I had no illusions.
I did not expect a princely entertainment.
All night it had been blowing and raining.
I felt quite lively myself as I mingled with the Christmas crowd, looking for things which might not turn out to be absolutely preposterous.
I even bought something from Edge. I mean Mrs. Wilson.
It was a horrible journey.
He was impervious to reason.
It is some satisfaction for me to be able to reflect that I made it warm for the officials, however cold I might have been myself.
When at last I reached Crofton, my journey's end, it turned out that the station staff consisted of a half-witted individual who was station master, porter, and clerk combined, and a hulking lad who did whatever else there was to do.
No one had come to meet me. The village was about a half a mile. And Hanger Dean, the house for which my steps were bent, about four miles by the road, how far it was across plowed fields my informant did not mention.
There was a trap at the Boy and Blunderbuss, but that required fetching.
When the trap did appear, it looked to me uncommonly like an open spring cart.
In it, I was deposited with my luggage.
I did not know what he meant.
I did not ask. I was beyond it.
I was chilled to the bone, wet, tired, hungry.
I had long been wishing that an old-fashioned Christmas had been completely extinct before I had thought of adventuring in quest of one.
Here we be. That might be so.
There'll be the door in front of you, you go up three steps, if you can find them.
There's a knocker if none of them haven't twisted it off.
There appeared to be no knocker, though whether it had been twisted off was more than I could say.
No answer though. I allowed a more than decent interval.
Better Ring again suggested the driver. Hard.
Maybe they're up to some of their games and wants rousing.
the bell reverberated through what seemed like an empty house.
Presently feet were heard advancing along the passage, several pairs it seemed, and a light gleamed through the window over the door.
A voice inquired. Who's there?
The information was greeted with what sounded uncommonly like a chorus of laughter.
There was a rush of retreating feet, an expostulating voice, then darkness again, and silence.
Who lives here? Are the people mad?
I told the bell again.
After a vast amount of unfastening the door was opened, and on the threshold there stood a girl, with a lighted candle on her hand.
I'm Mr. Christopher from London.
We've lost the key of the cellar and there's nothing out except water. And I don't think you'd care for that.
Her father is a most remarkable person to say the least.
But it is quite plain to me that all the arrangements for my wedding are going to be made by the snellings.
I do not know when it is going to be, but it will be either next week or the week after, certainly at the earliest possible moment, and I shouldn't be at all surprised to learn that all Marianne's things have been already bought and perhaps some of them marked.
It is most delightful.
It might just as well be someone else's wedding. So unimportant is the part which I am set to play in it.
For instance, look at their behavior in the matter of the ring.
The accident in question occurred upon the Sunday evening.
The girl is fretting, but you don't seem to notice it.
I gasped. Positively gasped.
That's it on your account.
from a cousin of ours who's in that line.
I never saw people like the snellings for possessing relatives in all sorts of lines.
I was persuaded that somebody besides that cousin got a profit out of Marianne's engagement ring, but I handed over the amount.
It is from her action in that matter that my suspicion springs.
There she owns a cottage, or it may be a pigsty for all I know.
When she heard of my engagement with Mary Ann, she wrote and suggested that we should spend our honeymoon in her cottage, or pigsty, and that I should pay her rent for it.
There were no signs of faltering about her flow of language.
I found that as a woman of business, she was beyond all my expectations.
It turned out that she had a little money of her own, about 130 pounds a year.
And, of course, I had my expectations, and she had hers.
It was plain that together we should manage most comfortably. Delightfully, in fact.
I shall make Papa give me 500 pounds, at least.
A bird in the hand is worth two in a bush, and it will be something to have by us.
I know what mama can afford to give and I will see if she gives it.
And I will see that there is no shirking about the boys or about the girls either.
I have drawn up a list of all the people who ought to give us a present, and I shall tell them what they ought to give. It won't be my fault if I don't get it."
Of course, there are some people with whom you can't be perfectly plain, but I shall be as plain as I can. There's a way and a manner of doing that kind of thing.
Hers has been prodigious.
She has a knack of getting people to do what she wishes and to give her what she wants, which is a little short of miraculous.
I noticed that they are generally persons who have already tendered their offerings.
The fact of having given Marianna wedding present seems to fill them with a feeling of rancorous acidity which to me is inexplicable.
such is the selfishness of human nature.
But why on that account they should pity me I altogether fail to understand.
We have all been giving Mary Anne presents, and I suppose you, Mr. Whiting, have been giving her something, too.
That was what Mrs. McPherson said to me only the other day.
And what inquired Mrs. McPherson has Mary Ann given you? Her love.
Someone sniggered.
I cannot pretend to explain why, except on the supposition that romance is dead, at least in that circle of society in which the snellings move.
As it is, unless I am mistaken, some of the rending will be on our side, and they know it.
PS. The cards are out for the wedding.
We're going for our honeymoon to Italy and the south of France.
A second cousin of Mary Ann's is in the Cook's tours line.
He has given us free passes all the way to the end of our journey and all the way back again and coupons for free board and lodging at the hotel. It's a wedding present.
Besides which, we can always sell the coupons and railway passes, which we don't use.
He was young. No spear had touched him. No poison lurked in his wine.
I tell you it is not poison, she cried.
Since his birth, he has been guarded so closely that the cleverest poisoners of the east could not reach him.
As you well know, there are ten men and ten women whose sole duty is to taste his food and wine, and fifty armed warriors guard his chamber as they guard it now.
A low confused moan wane from his mouth.
The man shrugged his broad shoulders and turned back into the Arabesque chamber.
This man was clad in a brown camel hair robe and sandals, and a green turban was on his head.
Not until the heavens were in the proper order could they perform this necromancy.
With a long stained fingernail, he mapped the constellations on the marble-tiled floor.
The slant of the moon presaged evil for the king of Vendia. The stars are in turmoil. The serpent in the house of the elephant.
Point of contact, inquire the other.
All discarded portions of the human body still remain part of it, attached to it by intangible connections.
But, at the urgent entreaty of the princes of Kosala, who loved Bunda Chand Vaini, he gave her a lock of his long black hair as a token of remembrance.
By which a soul is drawn from its body and across gulfs of echoing space. Return the man on the mat.
On the dais under the golden dome, the king cried out again, wracked by awful peroxysms.
They seek to snap the silver cord that binds me to my dying body.
They cluster around me. Their hands are taloned. Their eyes are red, like flame burning in darkness.
Their fingers sear me like fire.
I know now what brings me to the pyre.
There, they strove to break the silver cord of life, and thrust my soul into the body of a foul night-weird their sorcery summoned up from hell. Ah!
Your cry and the grip of your fingers brought me back, but I am going fast."
There was the old imperious note in his failing whisper.
You have never disobeyed me. Obey my last command!
Send my soul clean to Ashura.
They also found a Martian calendar. The year had been divided into ten more or less equal months, and one of them had been DOMA.
Bill Chandler, the zoologist, have been going deeper and deeper into the old sea bottom of Cirtus.
That took the center of interest away from archaeology and started a new burst of activity.
The civilian specialists in other fields and the Space Force people who had been holding tape lines and making sketches and snapping cameras were all flying to lower cyrtists to find out how much oxygen there was and what kind of life it supported.
They had four or five species of what might loosely be called birds, and something that could easily be classed as a reptile, and a carnivorous mammal the size of a cat with bird-like claws, and a herbivore almost identical with the pig-like thing in the big darf-hulva mural, and another, like a gazelle, with a single horn in the middle of its forehead.
The Daily Newscast from Terra showed a corresponding shift in interest at home.
Tony's found the Martians!
It was locked from the inside, and we had to burn it down with the torch. That's where they are.
Glorious Standish, who had dropped in for lunch, was on the mezzanine, fairly screaming into a radiophone extension. Doesn't and a half of them
Well, of course they're dead. What a question.
Martha remembered the closed door. On the first survey, they hadn't attempted opening it.
Now it was burned away at both sides, and lay, still hot along the edges, on the floor of the big office room in front.
A floodlight was on in the room inside, and Latimer was going around looking at things while a Space Force officer stood by the door.
Mass suicide. That's what it was. Notice what's in the corners.
Yes, charcoal.
So, they just came in here and lit the charcoal and sat drinking together till they all fell asleep.
The Terran public wanted to hear about Martians, and if live Martians couldn't be found, a room full of dead ones was the next best thing.
Tony Latimer, the discoverer, was beginning to cash in on his attentions to Gloria and his ingratiation with Sid. He was always either making voice and image talks for telecast or listening to the news from the home planet.
Without question, he had become, overnight, the most widely known archaeologist in history.
Not that I'm interested in all this for myself," he disclaimed after listening to the telecast from Tara two days after his discovery.
Bring it to the public attention. Dramatize it.
So, I believe I shall go back at least for a while and see what I can do.
lectures
the organization of a Society of Martian Archaeology with Anthony Latimer, PhD, the logical candidate for the chair.
I'll be glad to try, sir," he replied.
Inside, a secret rocket telemetering device was mounted on its test stand.
This isn't part of your testing routine, is it?
Another engineer rushed toward the door to see what was happening outside.
Electronic equipment cascaded from the wall shelves and a heavy-duty chain hoist came loose from its overhead track plunging to the floor with a terrifying crash.
An instant later it crashed over, pinning Mark Faber beneath it.
Bud threw up his arms to protect himself, but too late.
For minutes, no one stirred among the wreckage.
Then Tom, who had been stunned by some falling debris, raised himself to a sitting position.
Tom's eyes focused in horror on the wreckage enveloped by still billowing dust.
The sky was visible through several gaping holes in the roof, which was sagging dangerously on its supporting trusses.
The young inventor had just noticed his friend lying pin beneath a heavy beam nearby.
His friends eyelids flickered.
We'd better not try to move him, Tom decided. We'll get an ambulance.
They picked their way through the wreckage and emerged on a scene of frightful destruction.
Let's see about getting help for Mr. Faber.
And the only truck we had available was in that burning shed. The superintendent added bitterly.
Anyhow, we want to help. Got a job for us?
Within minutes, Tom was in charge of clearing away rubble and extricating anyone who might be trapped inside the buildings.
The telephone line was soon repaired and a steady stream of rescue vehicles began arriving from Harkness. Fire trucks, three ambulances, and private cars driven by volunteers.
The two girls were as much upset as Tom's mother. Tom laughed.
Mr. Swift came into the living room just then and told Tom how worried Mrs. Swift and Sandy had been.
He smiled guiltily as he added, but I must admit I was more than a little concerned myself.
He's a great scientist.
Tom nodded unhappily.
Male or female, human or animal.
Mr. Swift's eyes twinkled.
Fortunately, Will Hallie was not a man in a hurry and did not use oppressive canvas or as mass would inevitably have come down.
John Mangles, therefore, hoped that the wretched whole would reach port without accident, but it grieved him that his companions should have to suffer so much discomfort from the defective arrangements of the brig.
Their friends did their best to amuse them.
Their minds were so distracted at this change of route as to be quite unhinged.
Much as they had been interested in his dissertation on the pompous or Australia, his lectures on New Zealand fell on cold and in different ears.
His eyes wandered ceaselessly over the blind horizon.
What then, my lord?
God, keep us from such a meeting. Why, John?
We could not even fly. Fly John?
Yes, my Lord, we should try in vain.
We would fight to the death of course, but after that
Think of Lady Cola Narvin. Think of Mary Grant.
Will Hallie is a brute but I am keeping my eyes open and if the coast looks dangerous I will put the ships head to sea again.
So that on that score there is little or no danger
But as to getting alongside the Duncan, God forbid.
They were not to leave it again till the tops of the Wahiti ranges were lit for the first fires of day.
They had one night in which to prepare for death.
The meal ended.
Sleep, which keeps all sorrow in a band, soon weigh down their eyelids. They slept in each other's arms, overcome by exhaustion and prolonged watching.
If it is decreed that we die tomorrow, let us die bravely, like Christian men, ready to appear without terror before the Supreme Judge.
God, who reads our hearts, knows that we had a noble end in view.
Glenarbon's voice, firm till now, faltered.
John, you have promised Mary what I promised Lady Helena. What is your plan?
I believe, said John, that in the sight of God I have a right to fulfill that promise.
My Lord, whichever of us survives, the other will fulfill the wish of Lady Helena and Mary Grant.
At last, the major said, my friends, keep that to the last moment.
The jailer may forget that he is on guard. The prisoner never forgets that he is guarded.
On that side, descent was impossible. And had it been possible, bottom was shut in by the enormous rock.
Listen, said he, motioning them to stoop.
animal or man answered the major I will soon find out.
Wilson and Obanette joined their companions and all united to dig through the wall. John with his dagger, the others with stones taken from the ground, or with their nails, while Moraddy stretched along the ground, watched the native guard through a crevice of the matty.
What could be the object?
Did they know of the existence of the prisoners or was it some private enterprise that led to the undertaking?
Their fingers bled, but still they worked on. After a half an hour they had gone three feet deep. They perceived by the increased sharpness of the sounds that only a thin layer of earth prevented immediate communication.
John Mangles, inserting the blade of his ponyard, avoided the knife which is now protruded above the soil, but seized the hand that wielded it.
But softly as the name was breathed, Mary Grant, already awakened by the sounds in the hut, slipped over toward Glenarvin and seizing the hand, all stained with earth. She covered it with kisses.
Watch the savages outside, said Robert.
Round his body was rolled along, coil a flax rope.
My child, my child, murmured Lady Helena. The savages did not kill you.
Once there was a father who thought he would build for his children a beautiful home, putting into it everything they could need or desire throughout their lives.
The sweetest perfumes floated through the air, while thousands of birds answered the music of fountains with their songs.
Why did he give that so out of shape or so strange of covering?
And so through many questions and many experiments they learn at last how to use the contents of this one storehouse.
The entrance is light because it opens so wide, but we can see that the floor slopes downward and the way looks dark and narrow before us.
Walk down the sloping footpath now and be careful to keep out of the way of the little cars that are coming and going on each side of you. Load it on one side and empty on the other and seeming to run up and down by themselves.
Look a little closer while our guide lets the light of his lamp fall upon the black wall at your side.
See beneath your feet is the marking of great tree trunks lying in slant across the floor and the forms of gigantic palm leaves strode among them.
Here is something different. Rounded like a nut shell, you can split off one side and behold, there is the nut lined snuggly as does any test nut in its spur.
ferns and palms, mosses and trees and animals all perfect all beautiful and yet all hidden away under this hill and turned into shining black coal. Now I can very well remember when I first saw a coal fire and how odd it looked to see what seemed to be burning stones.
For when I was a little girl, we always had logs of wood blazing in an open fireplace. And so did many other people, and coal was just coming into use for fuel.
What should we have done if everybody had kept on burning wood to this day?
These forests were of trees different in some ways from those we have now. Great ferns as tall as this house and mosses as high as little trees and palm leaves of enormous size.
Then the hills were piled up on top of it all, but here and there some edge of a coal bed was tilted up and appeared above the ground.
But by and by the wise men thought about it and said to themselves, we must find out what youthful purpose God made the gas for. We know that he does not make anything for harm only.
It was only a trouble to the gas makers who had no use for it and even threw it away until someone more thoughtful than the others found out that water would not pass through it.
Don't you see how many uses we have found for this refused coal car?
When your hands or lips are cracked and rough from the cold, does your mother ever put on glycerin to heal them?
One who writes of such an era labors under a troublesome disadvantage.
In the present case, that disadvantage is doubled. For while the sins of the church, however heinous, were still such as admit of being expressed in words, the sins of the heathen world, against which she fought, were utterly indescribable, and the Christian apologist is thus compelled for the sake of decency to state the church's case far more weakly than the facts deserve.
Not, be it ever remembered, that the slightest suspicion of immorality attaches either to the heroine of this book or to the leading philosophers of her school for several centuries.
That divine word, who is the light who lighteth every man which cometh into the world, had awakened in the heart of mankind a moral craving never be forefelt in any strength, except by a few isolated philosophers or prophets.
The very emperors had arrayed themselves on her side.
Julian's last attempt to restore paganism by imperial influence had only proved that the old faith had lost all hold upon the hearts of the masses, had his death the great tide wave of new opinion rolled on unchecked, and the rulers of earth were feigned to swim with the stream. To accept, in words at least, the church's laws as theirs. To acknowledge a king of kings to whom even they owed homage and obedience, and to call their own slaves their poor brethren. And often too,
But if the emperors had become Christian, the Empire had not.
In the meanwhile, the minds of men cut adrift from their ancient moorings, wandered wildly over pathless seas of speculative doubt, and especially in the more metaphysical and contemplative east, attempted to solve for themselves the questions of man's relation to the unseen by those thousand schisms, heresies, and theosophies. It is a disgrace to the word philosophy to call them by it. On the records of which the student now gazes bewildered, unable alike to count, or to express
They brought before the minds of churchmen a thousand new questions which must be solved, unless the church was to relinquish forever her claims as the great teacher and satisfier of the human soul.
But the health of a church depends not merely on the creed which it professes, not even on the wisdom and holiness of a few great ecclesiastics, but on the faith and virtue of its individual members.
The man's sana must have a corpus sana to inhabit.
And the new blood at the era of this story was at hand.
Tribe after tribe was crowding down to the Alps and trampling upon each other on the frontiers of the Empire.
The Huns, singly their inferiors, pressed them from behind with the irresistible weight of numbers. Italy, with their rich cities and fertile lowlands, beckoned them on to plunder. As auxiliaries, they had learned their own strength and a Roman weakness. Ecosus Belly was soon found.
How iniquitous was the conduct of the sons of Theodosius in refusing the usual bounty by which the Goths were bribed not to attack the Empire. The whole pent-up deluge burst over the plains of Italy, and the Western Empire became from that day forth a dying idiot, while the new invaders divided Europe among themselves.
The countless treasures which five centuries of Rapin had accumulated around the capital had become the prey of men clothed in sheepskins and horse-hide, and the sister of an emperor had found her beauty, virtue, and pride of race, worthily matched by those of the hard-handed northern hero who led her away from Italy as his captive and his bride, to found new kingdoms in south France and Spain, and to drive the newly arrived vandals across the Straits of Gibraltar into the then-bond
That extraordinary reform in morals, which, according to Salvian and his contemporaries, the Vandal conquerors worked in North Africa, availed them nothing. They lost more than they gave.
Climate, bad example, and the luxury of power degraded them in one century into a race of helpless and debauched slaveholders, doomed to utter extermination before the semi-gothic armies of Belisarius, and with them vanished the last chance that the gothic races would exercise on the eastern world the same stern yet wholesome discipline under which the western had been restored to life.
That wonderful metaphysics subtlety, which, in phrases and definitions too often unmeaning to our grosser intellect, saw the symbols of the most important spiritual realities, and felt that on the distinction between Homo uosius and Homo iosius might hang the solution of the whole problem of humanity, was set to battle in Alexandria, the ancient stronghold of Greek philosophy, with the defeat remains of the very scientific thought to which it
To Sinesius' most charming letters, as well as to those of Isadore, the good abbot of Pelusium, I beg leave to refer those readers who wish for further information about the private life of the fifth century.
I cannot hope that these pages will be altogether free from anachronisms and errors.
The place seemed fragrant with all the riches of Greek thought and song, since the days when Ptolemy Philadelphus walked there with Euclid and Theocritus, Calamachus and Lycophron.
The room had neither carpet nor fireplace, and the only moveables in it were a sofa bed, a table, and an armchair. All of such delicate and graceful forms as may be seen on ancient vases of a far earlier period than that where of we write.
But, most probably, had any of us entered that room that morning, we should not have been able to spare a look either for the furniture, or the general effect, or the museum gardens, or the sparkling Mediterranean beyond. But we should have agreed that the room was quite rich enough for human eyes, for the sake of one treasure which it possessed, and, beside which, nothing was worth a moment glance.
She has lifted her eyes off her manuscript. She is looking out with kindling countenance over the gardens of the museum. Her ripe, curling Greek lips, such as we never see now, even among her own wives and sisters, open.
If they have ceased to guide nations, they have not ceased to speak to their own elect.
If they have cast off the vulgar herd, they have not cast off Ipatya.
To be welcomed into the celestial ranks of the heroic, to rise to the immortal gods, to the ineffable powers, onward, upward ever, through ages and through eternities, till I find my home at last, and vanish in the glory of the nameless and the absolute one.
I, to believe against the authority of Porphyry himself, too, in evil eyes and magic.
What do I care for food?
How can he who sphere lies above the stars stoop every moment to earth?
I, she answered, half bitterly, and would that we could live without food and imitate perfectly the immortal gods.
There is fruit with lentils and rice waiting for you in the next room and bread unless you despise it too much.
Strange that men should be content to grovel and to be men when they might rise to the rank of gods.
Not that such a creature as that disturbs me. No created thing I hope can move my equanimity. But if I could stoop to hate, I should hate her. Hate her.
And her voice took a tone which made it somewhat uncertain whether, in spite of all the lofty impassibility which she felt bound to possess, she did not hate Pelagia with the most human and mundane hatred.
His Excellency, Madam, the Prefect.
And why should that disturb me? Let him enter.
Shasta Rambles and Modoc Memories.
Arctic beauty and desolation, with their blessings and dangers, all may be found here to test the endurance and skill of adventurous climbers. But far better than climbing the mountain is going around its warm fertile base, enjoying its bounties like a bee circling around a bank of flowers.
Perhaps the profession of doing good may be full, but everybody should be kind at least to himself.
Go quietly, alone. No harm will befall you.
But it is far better to go a foot.
One blanket will be enough to carry, or you may forego the pleasure and burden altogether, as wood for fires is everywhere abundant.
Only a little food will be required.
Thus one saunters on and on in the glorious radiance, in utter peace and forgetfulness of time.
Yet strange to say, there are days, even here, somewhat dull-looking, when the mountain seems uncommunicative, sending out no appreciable invitation, as if not at home.
At such time, its height seems much less as if crouching and weary it were taking rest.
Every crystal dances responsive to the touches of the sun, and the currents of sap in the growing cells of all the vegetation are ever in a vital whirl and rush, and though many feet and wings are folded, how many are a stir?
Slight rainstorms are likely to be encountered in a trip around the mountain, but one may easily find shelter beneath well-fetched trees that shed the rain like a roof.
Then the shining of the wet leaves is delightful, and the steamy fragrance and the burst of bird song from a multitude of thrushes and finches and warblers that have nests in the chaperral.
A thousand thousand voices are heard, but so finely blended they seem a part of the night itself, and make a deeper silence.
and setting out from Strahtbury Valley by bearing off to the northwestward a few miles you may see.
In approaching it, its suspicious-looking, yellow-spotted hood and watchful attitude will be likely to make you go cautiously through the bog where it stands, as if you were approaching a dangerous snake.
It is lined with emerald algae and mosses and shaded with alder, willow and thorn bushes, which give it a fine setting.
It is three or four miles long and terminates at an elevation of about 9,500 feet above sea level. In moraine's sprinkled ice cliffs, 60 feet high.
The long gray slopes leading up to the glacier seem remarkably smooth and unbroken.
Most of the drainage of the glacier vanishes at once, in the porous rocks to appear in springs in the distant valley, and it is only in time of flood that the channel carries much water. Then there are several fine falls in the gorge, 600 feet or more in height.
Tracing this wild, changing channel gorge, Gully or Canyon, the sections will show Mount Shasta as a huge palimpsest, containing the record's layer upon layer of strangely contrasted events in its fiery icy history.
Regaining the low ground at the base of the mountain and holding on in your grand orbit, you pass through a belt of Juniper Woods called the Cedars to sheep-rock at the foot of the Shasta Pass.
Here you strike the old immigrant road, which leads over the low divide to the eastern slopes of the mountain.
Mount Bremer is the most noted stronghold of the sheep in the whole Shasta region.
Large flocks dwell here from year to year, winter and summer, descending occasionally into the adjacent sage-plans and lava-beds to feed, but ever ready to take refuge in the jagged crags of their mountain at every alarm.
While traveling with a company of hunters, I saw about 50 in one flock.
The mule deer are nearly as heavy.
Their long massive ears give them a very striking appearance.
But neither the glorified woods on the one hand nor the lake on the other could at first hold the eye.
Then fell the gloaming, making everything still more forbidding and mysterious.
Then darkness, like death.
Two or three miles farther on is the main stronghold of the modox. Held by them so long and defiantly against all the soldiers that could be brought to the attack.
The ducks, less wary, kept their places merely swimming in and out through openings in the rushes, rippling the glassy water and raising spangles in their wake.
They were broad, rugged, crevast, cloud-like masses of down-grinding ice, pouring forth streams of muddy water as measures of the work they are doing and sculpturing the rocks beneath them. Very unlike the long, majestic glaciers of Alaska, that river-like go winding down the valleys through the forests to the sea.
Thus, the Shasta River issues from a large lake-like spring in Shasta Valley, and about two-thirds of the volume of the McCloud gushes forth in a grand spring on the east side of the mountain, a few miles back from its immediate base.
Should the volume of the stream where you strike it seems small, then you will know that you are above the spring. If large, nearly equal to its volume at its confluence with the pit river, then you are below it. And in either case, have only to fall the river up or down until you come to it.
Under certain conditions, you may hear the roar of the water rushing from the rock at a distance of half a mile or even more. Or you may not hear it until within a few rods.
The vivid green of the boulders beneath the water is very striking and colors the entire stream with the exception of the portions broken into foam.
A splenium, epilobium, huchera, hazel, dogwood, and alder make a luxurious fringe and setting, and the forests of Douglas Bruce along the banks are the finest I have ever seen in this era.
Tracing rivers to their fountains makes the most charming of travels.
As the lifeblood of the landscapes, the best of the wilderness comes to their banks, and not one dull passage is found in all their eventful histories.
Tracing the McLeod to its highest springs and over the divide to the fountains of Fall River near Fort Crook, vents down that river to its confluence with the pit, on from there to the volcanic region about Lassen's butte, through the big meadows among the sources of the Feather River, and down through forests of sugar pine to the fertile plains of Chico. This is a glorious saunter and imposes no hardship.
The ascent of Lassen's butte is an easy walk, and the views from the summit are extremely telling.
The lofty icy Shasta, towering high above all, seems but an hour's walk from you, though the distance in an airline is about sixty miles.
The big meadows lie near the foot of Lassen's butte. A beautiful spacious basin set in the heart of the richly forested mountains, scarcely surpassed in the grandeur of its surroundings by Tahoe.
The great wilds of our country, once held to be boundless and inexhaustible, are being rapidly invaded and overrun in every direction, and everything destructible in them is being destroyed.
Every landscape low and high seems doomed to be trampled and harried.
When we took our seats at the breakfast table, it was with the feeling of being no longer looked upon as connected in any way with this case.
Instantly, they absorbed all my attention, though I dared not give them a direct look, and continued to observe them only in the glass.
Yes, and a very respectable one.
The lady is not the mother of the boys, but their aunt.
The boys belong to the gentleman who is a widower.
George nodded.
The boys look quite awake enough if the father does not.
Do they still insist that Ms. Chelaner was the only person in the room with them at this time?
George?
Have you ever thought that she might have been a suicide?
I know it sounds foolish, but the alternative is so improbable.
The boys look wide awake enough, but who can tell? I would sooner believe that...
A man was looking in from the corridor behind. At the four persons we were just discussing.
I inquired of George, with my eyes still on this purtive watcher.
I took quite a fancy to him. Why?
I am looking at him now.
just an everyday detective, but ambitious, I suppose, and quite alive to the importance of being thorough.
Yes, he's more currial in all his movements.
What does he want?
I asked as soon as George had returned to my side.
He wants me to stand ready to obey any summons the police may send me.
I emphasized complacently.
He appeared to know, for he told me at once that he was Detective Greis, a man who had grown old in solving just such baffling problems as these.
He gave up work some time ago I have been told. My husband went on. But evidently a great case still has its alignment for him.
The trail here must be a very blind one for them to call him in.
I wish we had not left so soon.
He was late, of course, but when he did appear, I almost forgot our usual greeting in my hurry to ask him if he had seen the evening papers.
However, a little later we had a comfortable chat.
It was one which gave me a small triumph over George.
The suggestion he had laughed at was not so entirely foolish as he had been pleased to consider it.
Their greeting was cordial, and the lines on the ladder's face relaxed a little. As he met the still bright eye of the man upon whose instinct and judgment so much reliance had always been placed.
This is very good of you," he began, glancing down at the aged detective's bundled up legs and gently pushing a chair towards him.
It's the most inexplicable there.
But clues, there are absolutely none.
That is, we have not been able to find any. Perhaps you can.
At least that is what we hope.
It's a case in a thousand, Grace.
The old man's eyes shot fire and unconsciously one foot slipped to the floor.
She had no companion near her.
No word, no cry, just a collapse, and sudden fall.
In olden days they would have said, struck by a bolt from heaven.
What do you make of it, Grace?
I should like to see the desk you speak of and the spot where she fell.
A young fellow who had been hovering in the background at one step forward.
He was the plane-faced detective who had spoken to George.
This sweetwater, as they called him, was, I have since understood, one of his protgs and more or less of a favorite.
Then over the ground, study to the affair carefully.
Very well then, you're in a position to pioneer me.
Well, well, that's honest at all events.
But I am in no position to make promises.
Old days don't return for the asking.
Whether he got anything else, it would be impossible to say from his manner as he finally sank into a chair by one of the openings and lived down on the lobby below.
What are two of the musicians from the end of the hall?
Naturally, they reached her first.
Mark Sauerby and Klaus Hinnerburg.
Honest Germans, men who have played here for years.
Who came next on the scene? Some people from the lobby
Anybody before the father came in?
Yes, Miss Clark, the middle-aged lady with the perishes.
I suppose she has been carefully questioned. Very, I should say.
And she speaks of no weapon.
Not till the doctor came, her doctor was happily in his office in this very building.
Yes, Mr. Slater, the assistant manager who was in the lobby at the time, says that ten minutes at least must have elapsed.
No doubt.
Sweetwater, someone drew that weapon out.
Not altogether by me.
Wherever she pleases, only I can't walk far.
It has not been running since last night, or it would be full of curious people all the time, hustling to get a glimpse of this place.
but they'll put a man on for you.
Very good. Manage it as you will.
I'll wait here till you're ready. Explain yourself to the lady. Tell her I'm an old and romantic invalid who has been used to asking his own questions.
As her quiet figure appeared in the doorway, Sweetwater stole a glance at Mr. Greisse.
There was no doubting them in this instance.
Yes!
For some little time, that is, it seemed long, though I believe it was not more than a minute before two men came running from the musician's gallery.
Yes, many times.
What made the difference?
Ms. Clark started, and her sweet face showed a moment's perplexity. Did I? She queried musingly.
No, a very natural one, I should say.
And the glance she cast him while not meeting his eye showed that she understood the importance of the admission.
I know, she said, what you are going to ask me now.
There was no point in the wound.
The time is narrowed down to one, and in that one, Miss Clark was the only person to touch her.
I will trouble you no further.
Sweetwater, help me out of this.
But vigor returned to him before he had well reached the door, and he showed some of his old spirit as he thanked Miss Clark and turned to take the elevator.
The next minute she was in this lady's arms.
No weapon protruded from the wound nor was any found on or near her in the mezzanine. What follows?
She struck the blow herself, and the strength of purpose which led her to do this gave her the additional force to pull the weapon out and fling it from her.
It did not fall upon the floor around her, therefore it flew through one of those openings into the lobby, and there it either will be or has been found.
With an education which ought to have ensured me an honorable standing in the world, with some intelligence, wit, good literary and scientific knowledge, and endowed with those accidental physical qualities which are such a good passport into society, I found myself, at the age of twenty, the mean follower of a sublime art, in which, if great talent is rightly admired, mediocrity is as rightly despised.
I was compelled by poverty to become a member of a musical band, in which I could expect neither esteem nor consideration, and I was well aware that I should be the laughingstock of the persons who had known me as a doctor in divinity, as an ecclesiastic, and as an officer in the army, and had welcomed me in the highest society.
I felt that, in my first profession, as I was not blessed with the vocation necessary to it, I should have succeeded only by dent of hypocrisy, and I should have been despicable in my own estimation, even if I had seen the purple mantle on my shoulders, for the greatest dignities cannot silence a man's own conscious.
Besides, I was of opinion that a man's profession, whatever it might be, ought to supply him with enough money to satisfy all his wants, and the very poor pay of an officer would never have been sufficient to cover my expenses, because my education had given me greater wants than those of officers in general.
are scandalous proceedings often exposed us to the greatest danger.
We would very often spend the whole night rambling about the city, inventing and carrying into execution the most impertinent practical jokes.
We did the same with physicians whom we often sent half-dressed to some nobleman who was enjoying excellent health.
Whenever we could contrive to get into a church tower, we thought a great fund to frighten all the parish by ringing the alarm bell, as if some fire had broken out. But that was not all. We always cut the bell ropes so that in the morning the church wardens had no means of summoning the faithful to early Mass.
This is the amusing adventure which closed our exploits.
In every one of the 72 parishes of the city of Venice, there is a large public house called Magazino.
Yet there are a few private rooms which contain a table surrounded with benches, in which a respectable family or a few friends can enjoy themselves in a decent way.
The waiter of the magazine came to be paid, and our chief gave him what was due, in joining silence under penalty of death.
We took our three prisoners to a large boat.
Where is my husband?
Never fear, you shall see him again tomorrow.
My readers may imagine whether we felt inclined to laugh when the charming creature beat us good night, thanking us all with perfect good faith.
Two days afterwards, our nocturnal orgy began to be talked of.
It went on to say that the two men who had carried her off had taken her to such a place where they had, an hour later, been met by the other six, and that they had all repaired to the two swords where they had spent an hour in drinking.
There was no cowardly traitor amongst us, although we were all poor. But fear had its effect, and our nacturnal pranks were not renewed.
I picked it up and coming up to him just as he was going down the steps, I handed it to him.
I told him, and he insisted upon my coming with him in the gondola, saying that he would leave me at my house.
I rubbed it with all my strength, but he told me in a sort of indistinct whisper that the numbness was spreading all along the left side, and that he was dying.
I jumped out of the gondola and found myself on the very spot where three years before I had taught razeta such a forcible lesson. I inquired for a surgeon at the first coffee house and ran to the house that was pointed out to me.
Taking everything upon myself, I ordered a servant to hurry out for a physician, who came in a short time, and ordered the patient to be blood again, thus approving the first bleeding prescribed by me.
Thinking I had the right to watch the sick man, I settled myself near his bed to give him every care he required.
They did not know who I was, and did not like to ask me. Whilst I thought it better to preserve a modest silence.
He had gambled and lost a great deal, and his brother was his most bitter enemy, because he was infatuated with the idea that he had tried to poison him.
The physician who attended him was named Tarot. He thought, by some peculiar train of reasoning, that he could cure him by applying a mercurial ointment to the chest, to which no one raised any objection.
Delighted with such a fortunate result, we lay down again.
He entreated me to tell him the truth.
What extraordinary things will sometimes occur from mere chance or from the force of circumstances?
unwilling to hurt his vanity by telling him that he was mistaken. I took the wild resolution of informing him in the presence of his two friends that I possessed a certain numeral calculus which gave answers, also in numbers, to any questions I like to put.
I obeyed implicitly and met your Excellency.
The three friends were astounded.
I declared myself quite willing, for it was necessary to brazen it out, after having ventured as far as I had done.
He wrote the question and gave it to me. I read it. I could not understand either the subject or the meaning of the words, but it did not matter. I had to give an answer.
If the question was so obscure that I could not make out the sense of it, it was natural that I should not understand the answer.
They all ask me how long I would require to teach them the rules of my sublime calculus.
Not very long, I answered. And I will teach you as you wish, although the hermit assured me that I would die suddenly within three days, if I communicated my science to anyone. But I have no faith whatever in that prediction.
They believed that through me they possessed the philosopher's stone, the universal panacea, the intercourse with all the elementary, heavenly, and infernal spirits, and they had no doubt whatever that, thanks to my sublime science, they could find out the secrets of every government in Europe.
But, although believing fully in my oracles, they were too kind-hearted to think them the work of the devil, and it suited their natural goodness better to believe my answers inspired by some heavenly spirit.
They were not only good Christians and faithful to the church, but even real devotees and full of scruples.
As for the Eucharist, trans-substantiation, the real presence, it was all no mystery to them, but palpable evidence, and yet they were not Jesuits.
I might be told that if I had wished to follow the rules of pure morality, I ought either to have declined intimate intercourse with them, or to have undeceaved them.
Besides, I found it very flattering to my vanity to become the subject of the speculative chattering of empty fools who, having nothing else to do in always trying to find out the cause of every moral phenomena they mate with, which their narrow intellect cannot understand.
Whoever you may be, I am indebted to you for my life.
Your apartment is ready. You may send your clothes. You shall have a servant, a gondola at your orders. My own table and ten sequins a month.
You need not think of the future. Think only of enjoying yourself and take me as your advisor in everything that may happen to you. In everything you may wish to undertake and you may be certain of always finding me your friend.
I threw myself at his feet, to assure him of my gratitude, and embraced him, calling him my father.
Sir Edward, not wholly discouraged by the denial with which Doraforth had with delicacy acquainted him, still hoped for a kind reception, and was so often at the house of Mrs. Horton that Lord Frederick's jealousy was excited, and the tortures he suffered in consequence convinced him beyond a doubt of the sincerity of his affection.
Every time he beheld the object of his passion, for he still continued his visits, though not so frequently as heretofore, he pleaded his cause with such ardour that Miss Woodley, who was sometimes present and ever compassionate, could not resist wishing him success.
Yet did the watchful Miss Woodley oftentimes hear a sigh escape from her unknown to herself, till she was reminded of it, and then a sudden blush would instantly overspread her face.
Night after night his sleep had been disturbed by fears for her when abroad. Morning after morning it had been broken by the clamor of her return.
I hope Miss Milner you passed this evening at home.
I thought, Miss Milner, you gave me your word that you would pass this evening at home.
Yes, indeed, and I believe it is right that I should keep my first promise, is it not?
Mrs. Horton rose from her seat, moved the decanters and fruit round the table, stirred the fire, and came back to her seat again before another word was uttered.
Nor had this good woman's officious labors taken the least from the awkwardness of the silence, which as soon as the bustle she had made was over, returned in its full force.
Miss Milner, you shall not leave the house this evening. Sir!
And he walked immediately out of the apartment by another door.
Her hand fell motionless from that which she held. She appeared motionless herself, till Mrs. Horton, beseeching her not to be uneasy at the treatment she had received, made her tears flow as if her heart was breaking.
It was not from any real cause of grief that she wept, but there was a magnetic quality in tears which always attracted hers.
Do you think I would go?" answered Miss Milner, with an eagerness that for a time suppressed her tears, in contradiction to his will.
If you think so, madam, I see nothing that should prevent me now.
Niece, I command you not to stir out of the room this evening.
Miss Woodley obediently sat down, and though her thoughts and heart were in the chamber of her friend, she never marks by one impertinent word or by one line of her face the restraint she suffered.
At the usual hour Mr. Doraforth and his ward were summoned to tea. He entered with accountanence which evince the remains of anger. His eye gave testimony of his absent thoughts, and though he took up a pamphlet affecting to read, it was plain to discern that he scarcely knew he held it in his hand.
Miss Woodley thought it her duty to be mute, and now the jingle of a teaspoon was like a deep toned bell all was so quiet.
Mrs. Horton, too, in the self-approving reflection that she was not in a quarrel or altercation of any kind, felt herself at this moment remarkably peaceful and charitable.
Miss Woodley did not recollect herself so, but was so in reality. In her, peace and charity were instinctive virtues. Accident could not increase them.
He coughed, drank his tea, in desperate to talk but found it difficult. Sometimes red, and in this manner near two hours were passed away when Miss Milner came into the room, not dressed for a ball but as she had risen from dinner.
Dora forth read on, and seemed afraid of looking up, lest he should see what he could not have pardoned.
After a few minutes pause and some little embarrassment on the part of Mrs. Horton, at the disappointment she had to encounter from this unexpected, dutiful conduct, she asked Miss Milner if she would now have any tea.
Doraforth then laid the book out of his hand, and by the time the servant had left the room thus began.
It is often the ungrateful task of a friend to be troublesome, sometimes unmannerly.
Forgive the duties of my office, and believe that no one is half so much concerned if it robs you of any degree of happiness as I myself am.
What he said, he looked with so much sincerity that had she been burning with rage at his late behavior, she must have forgiven him for the regret which he so forcibly expressed.
She was going to reply, but found she could not, without accompanying her words with tears, therefore after the first attempt she desisted.
On this, he rose from his chair and going to her said, Once more show your submission by obeying me a second time today.
Keep your appointment, and be assured that I shall issue my commands with more circumspection for the future, as I find how strictly they are complied with.
In the last communication which he had received from Lady Milbrough, she had scolded him in terms that were for her severe because he had not returned to his wife and taken her off with him to Naples.
And now it had come to pass that his sole remaining ally, Mr. Samuel Basel, the ex-policeman, was becoming weary of his service.
At last he sent word to say that he himself would be in England before the end of March and would see that the majesty of the law should be vindicated in his favor.
In making this he had expected no success, though from the energetic nature of his disposition he had made the attempt with some zeal.
Mrs. Basel was disposed to think that ladies of quality, among whom Madame T was entitled in her estimation to take rank, were seldom better than they ought to be, and she was quite willing that her husband should earn his bread by watching the lady or the lady's lover.
And had the case been brought before the judge ordinary by means of her husband's exertions, she would have taken pleasure in reading every word of the evidence, even though her husband should have been ever so roughly handled by the lawyers.
A distinct promise of 100 pounds was made to him if he would have the child ready to hand over to Trevalion on Trevalion's arrival in England.
Of course it ain't, said Mrs. Basel.
The paternal parent has a right to his infant's no doubt. That was Basel's law.
He can't suckle him, Kenny.
When a married woman has followers, and the husband don't go the wrong side of the post, too, or it ain't proved again him that he do, they'll never let her have nothing to do with the children.
I'll tell you what it is, Bee, exclaimed Mrs. Basel. It's my belief as he ain't quite right up here, and Mrs. Basel touched her forehead.
Dratamal, what is it they want? They don't know what they want.
It's that is makes him, and I won't say what.
But ask for this here child be.
Trevellian had followed his letter quicker than he had intended when it was written, and was now with his Prime Minister, before his Prime Minister had been able to take any action on the last instruction received.
Does one Mr. Samuel Basel live here, asked Trevellian?
Then Basel came forward and introduced his wife.
But Trevalion was of a different opinion, and he was disgusted and revolted, most unreasonably, by the appearance of his minister's domestic arrangements.
Basel had always waited upon him with a decent coat and a well-brushed hat and clean shoes.
It is very much easier for such men as Mr. Basel to carry decency of appearance about with them than to keep it at home.
Perhaps you could put on your coat and walk out with me for a few minutes, said Trevellian.
Mrs. Basel, who well understood that business was business and that wives were not business, felt no anger at this and handed her husband his best coat.
Basel, away from his own home, out on business with his coat buttoned over his breast and his best hat in his hand, was aware that he commanded respect, and he could carry himself accordingly.
I do not suppose that anybody will question my right to have the care of my own child," said Trevalion.
If you would have gone to Mr. Skinshire, suggested Basel,
As he went about, his eyes were ever cast downwards, and he walked with a quick shuffling gate, and he suspected others, feeling that he himself was suspected.
And all work had ceased with him.
He's up in town, sir, a minding of his parliamentary duties.
I've watched as sharp as watching can go pretty near.
But if you ask me my opinion, why in course they've been together somewhere?
and Basel as he said this smiled almost aloud.
And he did go away, leaving Basel standing in the middle of Stony Walk.
Master and man dismounted from their beasts, and as soon as they had settled themselves at the foot of the trees, Sancho, who had had a good noontine meal that day, let himself, without more ado, passed the gates of sleep.
Badonchiot, whom his thoughts, far more than hunger, kept awake, could not close an eye, and roamed in fancy to and fro through all sorts of places.
At one moment it seemed to him that he was in the cave of Montecenos, and Saul D'Osinnea transformed into a country-wench, skipping and mounting upon her she-ass, again that the words of the sage Merlin were sounding in his ears, setting forth the conditions to be observed and the exertions to be made for the disenchantment of D'Osinnea.
Who is touching me and untrusting me?
Dossenea is perishing, thou art living on regardless. I am dying of hope deferred. Therefore, untrust thyself with a good will, for mine it is, here, in this retired spot, to give thee at least two thousand lashes.
Seeing this Sancho got up and grappling with his master, he gripped him with all his might in his arms, giving him a trip with the heel, stretched him on the ground on his back, and pressing his right knee on his chest held his hands in his own so that he could neither move nor breathe.
Oh no traitor! Exclaimed Don't Mookiote!
Does thou revolt against thy master, and natural lord?
Does the rise against him who gives thee his bread?
Don Quixote gave his promise and swore by the life of his thoughts not to touch so much as a hair of his garments, and to leave him entirely free and to his own discretion to whip himself whenever he pleased.
Sancho rose and removed some distance from the spot, but as he was about to place himself leaning against another tree, he felt something touch his head and putting up his hands and countered somebody's two feet with shoes and stockings on them.
He trembled with fear and made for another tree where the very same thing happened to him and he fell a shouting calling upon Don Quixote to come and protect him.
Don Quixote did so and asked him what had happened to him and what he was afraid of.
Santo replied that all the trees were full of men's feet and legs.
Don Quixote was on foot with his horse unbridled and his lance leaning against a tree, and in short, completely defenseless. He thought at best therefore to fold his arms and bow his head and reserve himself for a more favorable occasion and opportunity.
He was mounted upon a powerful horse and had on a coat of mail with four of the pistols they called Petronelles in that country at his waist.
He saw that his choirs, so they called those who followed that trade, were about to rifle Sancho Pansa, but he ordered them to desist and was at once obeyed, so the girdle escaped.
He saw me, he paid court to me, I listened to him, and unknown to my father, I loved him. For there is no woman, however secluded she may live, or close she may be kept, who will not have opportunities and despair for following her headlong impulses.
In a word, he pledged himself to be mine and I promised to be his without carrying matters any further.
Give me my horse and arms, and wait for me here. I will go in quest of this night, and dead or alive, I will make him keep his word plated to so great beauty.
Nobody need have any doubt about that, said Sancho. For my master has a very happy knack of matchmaking. It's not many days since he forced another man to marry, who, in the same way, backed out of his promise to another maiden. And if it had not been for his persecutors, the enchanters, changing the man's proper shape into a lackeys, the said maiden would not be won this minute.
They made haste to overtake them, which as the party moved slowly, they were able to do with ease.
The wounded gentleman opened his all but closed eyes, and recognizing Claudia said, I see clearly a fair and mistaken lady, that it is thou that has slain me, a punishment not merited or deserved by my feelings toward thee. For never did I mean to, nor could I, wrong thee in thought or deed.
It is not true then, Zeglaria. That thou were going this morning to Mary Leonora, the daughter of the rich Balvestero?
On perceiving this Claudia, when she had convinced herself that her beloved husband was no more, rent the air with her size, and made the heavens ring with her lamentations. She tore her hair and scattered it to the winds. She beat her face with her hands and showed all the signs of grief and sorrow that could be conceived to come from an afflicted heart.
cruel, reckless woman she cried. How easily worth thou moved to carry out a thought so wicked.
Oh husband, whose unhappy fate in being mine hath borne thee from the very dead to the grave.
The servants wept. Claudia swooned away again and again, and the whole place seemed a field of sorrow and an abode of misfortune.
Claudia told him she meant to go to a monastery of which an ant of hers was a base, where she intended to pass her life with a better and everlasting spouse.
Claudia would not on any account allow him to accompany her and thanking him for his offers as well as she could to cleave of him in tears.
Sancho said they had, but the three curchiefs that were worth three cities were missing.
What are you talking about, man?
said one of the bystanders. I have got them, and they are not worth three reels."
At this instant, one or two of those squires who were posted as sentinels on the roads to watch who came along them and report what passed to their chief came up and said, Senor, there is a great group of people not far off coming along the road to Barcelona.
What led me into it was a certain thirst for vengeance, which is strong enough to disturb the quietest hearts.
And if you have any desire to shorten the journey and put yourself easily in the way of salvation, come with me, and I will show you how to become a knight-errant, a calling wherein so many hardships and mishaps are encountered that if they be taken as penances, they will lodge you in heaven in a trice.
And now the squires dispatched to make the prize came up, bringing with them two gentlemen on horseback, two pilgrims on foot, and a coach full of women with some six servants on foot and on horseback and attendants on them, and a couple of mule tears whom the gentlemen had with them.
The captain showed plainly the concern they felt. The Regents Lady was downcast, and the pilgrims did not at all enjoy seeing their property confiscated.
The region's lady ordered one of her servants to give the 80 crowns that had been assessed as her share at once, for the captains had already paid down their 60.
One of the Squires observed in his mixture of Gascon and Catalan. This captain of ours would make a better friar than a highwayman. If he wants to be so generous another time, let it be with his own property and not ours.
They were all taken aback, and not one of them dared to utter a word. Such deference did they pay him.
He had been a clerk in a banking house, and was transported for embezzlement, though by some grave doubts as to his guilt were entertained.
When the muster bell rang and the gang broke up, Rufus Dawes on his silent way to his separate cell observed a notable change of custom in the disposition of the new convict.
I'm not to go in there," says the ex-bank clerk, drawing back into smay from the cloud of foul faces which lowered upon him.
What is he more than anybody else, said the wretched man to himself, as he hugged his misery close?
About dawn the next morning, Mr. North, who, amongst other vagaries, not approved of by his bishop, had a habit of prowling about the prison that, unofficial hours, was attracted by a dispute at the door of the dormitory.
A prisoner refractory, your reverence, said the Watchman.
wants to come out. Mr. North.
Kirkland, ghastly pale bleeding with his woolen shirt torn and his blue eyes wide open with terror was clinging to the bars.
and beat on the bars with white and sweating hands.
I order you, sir, North Pride, and Dignit.
Very sorry, your reverence, but your reverence knows that I don't do such a thing.
Oh, you ministers of Christ, wolves in sheep's clothing. You shall be judged for this.
Let him out cried north again, stamping his foot.
There's more trouble with you bloody aristocrats than enough. Lie quiet.
You can guess what that unhappy boy has suffered.
Impertinent young beggar said Burgess.
Do him good. Curse him.
It's hard for such youngins.
Have you ever been in that place I was in last night?" asked Kirkland.
What does he care? CARE!
If you fall, we must fall over you. And then you're done for.
He had hardly uttered the words when the boy flung himself beneath the log.
Hold on to me, Miss Nancy," said the giant. I'm big enough to carry double.
But Kirkland kept steadily on for the river.
Just as he reached it, however, the figure of Mr. North rose from behind a pile of stones.
Kirkland jumped for the jettie, missed his footing, and fell into the arms of the chaplain.
Oh, Mr. North says Kirkland. Why did you stop me?
Must stop that 50 lashes, Troke.
That last fellow you had ought to have been tied up himself.
I won't have my men knocked up with flogging these rascals.
Very good, Your Honor, says Troke.
Captain Freire says that the scenery is delightful.
Abandoned indeed by God and man, almost.
and the valley of the shadow of death he is with us.
You have not been long in the colony, Mr. Meakin.
If you please, said Meek and Gravelie.
Pray help yourself to whine.
Have you many visitors, Captain Burgess? Very few.
I was courted with him at Sarah Island.
So he's a friend of yours, any?
I had the pleasure of meeting him in society.
He is just married, you know. Is he said Burgess?
The devil he is, I heard something about it too.
Yes, one oughtn't to leave the colony without seeing it, says Burgess. It's worth seeing.
In fact, the ringleader John Rex gave me his confession, and I sent it to the bishop.
A great rascal put in north.
Well now, said Meekin' with the Sparity. I don't agree with you.
He seems to me to be truly penitent for his offenses. A misguided but not a hypocritical man, if my knowledge of human nature goes for anything. I hope he is said north.
There's no fear of him," said Burgess cheerily. If he grows uproarious, we'll soon give him a touch of the cat.
I suppose severity is necessary, return meekin, though to my ears a flogging sounds a little distasteful.
I have these attacks at times.
The Reverend Meakin eyed his clerical brother with horror. The Reverend Meakin was not accustomed to clergymen who wore black neckties, smoked clay pipes, chewed tobacco, and drank neat brandy out of tumblers.
So they went on to the veranda and looked down upon the lights of the prison and listened to the sea lapping the shore.
By and by a short figure, smoking a charote, came up out of the dark and proved to be Dr. McIlwain, who had been prevented from attending the dinner by reason of an accident to a constable at Norfolk Bay, which had claimed his professional attention.
Dead, said Dr. McElwain.
Delighted to see you Mr. Meakin.
But McElwain was tired and wanted to get home.
Our roads lie together, doctor.
Before the two clergymen had got halfway down the steep path that led from the common-dance house to the flat on which the cottages of the doctor and chaplain were built, McElwain rejoined them.
Another vlogging tomorrow said he grumblingly.
Who am I going to vlog now?
You don't mean to say he's going to flog Kirkland.
Perhaps you'll have the goodness to allow me to be the best judge of that return Macklewain, drawing up his little body to its least insignificant stature.
Mr. Meakin expressed some alarm, but Dr. McElwain reassured him.
We can't do anything without evidence. Complain!
I shall find my portmanteau in my room, you said."
He sleeps at the back and north hurried off.
An impulsive gentleman said meek into Macklewain, as a sound of Mr. North's footsteps died away in the distance.
McElwain shook his head seriously.
He is the strangest fits at times.
Unless it's a cancer in the stomach, I don't know what it can be. Cancer in the stomach.
Doctor, we all have our crosses, have we not?
How delightful the grass smells!
Good night, sir. I hope you will be comfortable.
I'll teach my prisoners to attempt suicide.
That's McElwain's business.
Then don't you interfere with me, sir.
I've given my orders, sir.
Then Captain Burgess cried north, his pale face flushing. I tell you the boy's blood will be on your head.
I am a minister of God, sir, and I forbid you to commit this crime.
Damn, you're impertinent sir burst out Burgess.
You're a dismissed officer of the government, sir.
This of course was Mir Brovano on the part of the Commandant.
North knew well that he would never dare to attempt any such act of violence, but the insult stung him like the cut of a whip.
Show Mr. North out, he said, and go down to the barracks until troke that Kirkland is to have a hundred lashes tomorrow.
I'll show you whose master here my good sir.
This is murderous.
The government may go to PANU-2, Ward Burgess. Get out!
They shall not flog that boy," he said.
I'll report this to the government.
I wish I hadn't taken that brandy," he said, "'Fool that I am.'"
Oh God, give me strength. Aid me. Help me.
O Lord, look down upon me!
He mixed a teaspoon of this in a panicane of water and drank it.
It relieved him for a while.
It was as though he had reached the crisis of a disease, which had been for days gathering force.
I must have a teaspoon full," he said, to allay the craving.
Twice he paused on the way to the sitting-room, and twice was he driven on by a power stronger than his will.
He smelt the nutty aroma of the Spirit.
that at all times debasing, at this particular time it was infamous, that a vice unworthy of any man was doubly sinful in a man of education and a minister of God in vain.
In the midst of his arguments, he found himself at the cupboard with the bottle at his lips in an attitude that was at once ludicrous and horrible.
Her meeting with Lettie was indescribably tender, and the days that followed were pretty equally divided between her and her brother, in nursing the one and loving the other.
But even while she enjoyed every hour of life and begrudged the time given to sleep, she felt as if the dream was too beautiful to last and often said.
So Christie turned a deaf ear to her prophetic soul and gave herself up to the blissful holiday that had come at last.
Nothing can surprise me now. I'm prepared for anything, even the sight of my Quakerish lover dancing a jig.
I feel like a boy out of school, or rather a man out of prison, and must enjoy my liberty in some way.
I'm not a talker, you know, and, as the laws of gravitation forbid my soaring aloft anywhere, I can only express my joyfully uplifted state of mind by prancing, as you call it.
I don't want you to. I love to see you so young and happy. Only you are not the old David and I've got to get acquainted with the new one.
I hope you'll like him better than the frostbitten old David you first knew and were kind enough to love.
Mother says I've gone back to the time before we lost Lettie, and I sometimes feel as if I had.
In that case, you will find me a proud and petuous, ambitious fellow, Christie, at How will that suit?
Excellently, I like pride of your sort. Impetuosity becomes you, for you have learned to control it if need be. And the ambition is best of all.
I shall wait for time to show.
Then they went back to their work, little dreaming as they tied roses and twined similar axe-reaves, how near that other chance was, how soon they were to be called upon to keep their promise, and how well each was to perform the part given them in life and death.
To know home in the land did the great trouble bring a more sudden change than the little cottage in the lane.
David was sober enough now, and went about his work with a grim set to his lips, and a spark in his eyes that made the three women look at one another pale with unspoken apprehension.
It is terrible and yet glorious.
David held it close in both of his, saying gratefully, Thank you, mother. Then fixing his eyes on the younger, yet not dearer women, he added with a ring in his voice that made their hearts answer with a prompt, I, I, in spite of love or fear.
The boys, bless their brave hearts, have done nobly, but older men are needed now. We cannot sacrifice all the gallant lads, and we who have more to lose than they must take our turn and try to do as well.
Yes, David. Sister and sweetheart answered, bravely forgetting in the fervor of the moment what heavy consequences God might see fit to send. Good.
Then it will take the garden and the greenhouse off my hands this autumn for a year or longer if I like.
He's a kind, neighborly man, and his boy will take my place about the house and protect you faithfully.
I knew you would go. I saw you getting ready and I made up my mind to follow.
You will let me do it, and in return I will marry you whenever you ask me answered Christie, sealing the promise with a kiss that silenced him.
You've something to tell me. I see it in your face. Dear, I must go.
Next evening, as Mrs. Sterling sat alone in the twilight, a tall man in army blue entered quietly, stood watching the tranquil figure for a moment, then went and knelt down beside it, saying, with the most unsoldierly choke in the voice,
The loyal frenzy fell upon the three quiet women, and they could not do too much for their country.
It would have taken many napsacks to hold all the gifts showered upon him by his friends and neighbors.
Finding that Lycia showed little enthusiasm on the subject, she tried to rouse him by patriotic appeals of various sorts.
Very well said Mrs. Wilkins, resolutely, to herself. If I can't make no impression on his soul, I will on his stomach and see how that'll work.
We can't afford no nice fiddles now when our men are suffering so.
He was not as unmoved as he seemed by the general excitement, and had felt sundry manly impulses to up an atom when his comrades in the shop discussed the crisis with iron full brandishing of alls and vengeful pounding of soul leather as if the rebels were under the hammer.
To say that the fish rose at once and swallowed the bait, hook and all, but feebly expresses the justice done to the cakes by that long-suffering man.
Can you remember what Hepsey told us and call them poor, long, suffering, creator's names?
No, he ain't. It's a trainer, added and Lizzie.
Now, Cynthia, be you satisfied.
and the inconsistent woman fell upon his butny breast, weeping copiously.
His wife said him with the fat of the land, regardless of consequences. His children revolved about him with tireless curiosity and wonder. His neighbors flocked into a plot, advised and admire. Everyone treated him with respect most grateful to his feelings. He was an object of interest, and with every hour his importance increased, so that by night he felt like a commander-in-chief and bore himself accordingly.
Then the good soul openly shouldered the burden she had borne so long in secret and bravely trudged on alone.
The women dropped their work to look and listen, for his visits were few and short, and every instant was precious.
They knew what it was without a word. Mrs. Sterling clasped her hands and bowed her head.
Now let's be brave and enjoy every minute of it.
We will. What can I do for you, Davey?" asked Christy, wonderfully supported by the thought that she was going to.
As a married woman, you will get on better. As my wife, you will be allowed to come to me if I need you. And as my... He stopped here, for he could not add. As my widow, you will have my pension to support you.
Nothing can part us anymore, not even death, for love like ours will last forever.
Not one, David. That's true. Love, Christy.
Then they stood quite still for a time, and in the silence the two hearts talked together in the sweet language, no tongue can utter.
Surely I shall, if I give you and myself to the cause, and I do it gladly, though I know that my heart has got to ache as it never has ached yet, when my courage fails, as it will buy and buy, and my selfish soul counts the cost of my offering after the excitement is over.
David caught the exaltation and gave no further thought to anything but the duty of the hour, finding himself stronger and braver for that long look into the illuminated face of the woman he loved.
The roses are, for they remind me of poor Helen, and the first work I did with David was arranging flowers like these for a dead baby's little coffin.
But I think few brides dress with a braver, happier heart than mine, though I do choose this over, wedding gown answered Christie, smiling again, as she took from a half-packed trunk her new hospital suit of soft gray wool and stuff.
Mr. Power is waiting. Are you ready, love? Quite ready.
You young folks take a wedding trip to the greenhouse while we see how well we can get on without you.
David and Christie went smiling away together, and if they shed any tears over the brief happiness, no one saw them but the flowers, and they loyally kept the secret folded up in their tender hearts.
A very simple little marriage feast, but more love, good will, and tender wishes adorn the plain table than is often found at wedding breakfasts. And better than any speech or song was Letty's Broken Whisper, as she folded her arms around David's empty chair when no one saw her. Heaven bless and keep and bring him back to us.
All watched with quickened breath, and proud souls that living wave blew below and bright with a steely glitter above, as it flowed down the street in a way to join the sea of dauntless hearts that for months had rolled up against the south, and ebbed back reddened with the blood of men like these.
Then she saw David and the regiment became one man to her.
I could not love the e-bears so much. Love, die, not on her more.
Every elevation of the type man has hitherto been the work of an aristocratic society, and so it will always be, a society believing in a long scale of gradations of rank and differences of worth among human beings, and requiring slavery in some form or other.
The distinctions of moral values have either originated in a ruling caste, pleasantly conscious of being different from the ruled, or among the ruled class, the slaves and dependents of all sorts.
We truthful ones, the nobility in ancient Greece called themselves.
It is obvious that everywhere the designations of moral value were at first applied to men, and were only derivatively and at a later period applied to actions. It is a gross mistake, therefore, when historians of morals start with questions like, why have sympathetic actions been praised?
He honors whatever he recognizes in himself. Such morality equals self-glorification.
Probably a pessimistic suspicion with regard to the entire situation of man will find expression, perhaps a condemnation of man, together with his situation.
Here is the seat of the origin of the famous antithesis, good and evil. Power and dangerousness are assumed to reside in the evil, a certain dreadfulness, subtlety and strength which do not admit of being despised.
According to slave morality, therefore, the evil man arouses fear. According to master morality, it is precisely the good man who arouses fear and seeks to arouse it, while the bad man is regarded as the despicable being.
Everywhere that slave morality gains the ascendancy, language shows a tendency to approximate the significations of the word good and stupid.
Or he will even say, For many reasons I can delight in the good opinion of others, Perhaps because I love and honor them, and rejoice in all their joys, Perhaps also because their good opinion endorses and strengthens my belief in my own good opinion, Perhaps because the good opinion of others, even in cases where I do not share it, is useful to me, or gives promise of usefulness. All this, however, is not vanity.
In fact, conformably to the slow rise of the democratic social order and its cause, the blending of the blood of masters and slaves, the original noble and rare impulse of the masters to assign a value to themselves and to think well of themselves will now be more and more encouraged and extended, but it has at all times an older, ampler, and more radically ingrained propensity opposed to it, and in the phenomenon of vanity this older propwall
The most varied experience teaches it what are the qualities to which it principally owes the fact that it still exists, in spite of all gods and men, and has hitherto been victorious. These qualities, it calls virtues, and these virtues alone it develops to maturity.
Variations, whether they be deviations into the higher finer and rarer, or deterioration and monstrosities, appear suddenly on the scene in the greatest exuberance and splendor. The individual dares to be individual and detach himself.
At this turning point of history there manifest themselves, side by side, and often mixed and entangled together, a magnificent, manifold, virgin forest-like upgrowth and up-striving, a kind of tropical tempo in the rivalry of growth, and an extraordinary decay and self-destruction, owing to the savagely opposing and seemingly exploding egoisms, which strive with one another for sun and light, and can no longer assign any limit restraint or forbearance for themselves by
Nothing but new whys, nothing but new hows, no common formulas any longer, misunderstanding and disregard in league with each other, decay, deterioration, and the loftiest desires frightfully entangled, the genius of the race overflowing from all the cornucopias of good and bad, a portentous simultaneousness of spring and autumn, full of new charms and mysteries peculiar to the fresh, still exhausted, still unwearied corruption.
Danger is again present, the mother of morality, great danger. This time shifted into the individual, into the neighbor and friend, into the street, into their own child, into their own heart, into all the most personal and secret recesses of their desires and volitions.
What will the moral philosophers who appear at this time have to preach?
This is the problem of race.
In our very democratic or rather very plebeian age, education and culture must be essentially the art of deceiving, deceiving with regard to origin, with regard to the inherited plebeianism in body and soul.
The noble soul accepts the fact of his egoism without question, and also without consciousness of harshness, constraint, or arbitrariness therein, but rather is something that may have its basis in the primary law of things. If he sought a designation for it, he would say, it is justice itself.
On this account, the people of one nation understand one another better than those belonging to different nations, even when they use the same language. Or rather, when people have lived long together under similar conditions of climate, soil, danger, requirement, toil, there originates therefrom an entity that understands itself, namely a nation.
The greater the danger, the greater is the need of agreeing quickly and readily about what is necessary, not to misunderstand one another in danger. That is what cannot at all be dispensed with in intercourse.
Also, in all loves and friendships, one has the experience that nothing of the kind continues when the discovery has been made that in using the same words, one of the two parties has feelings, thoughts, intuitions, wishes, or fears different from those of the other.
Whichever groups of sensations within a soul awaken most readily, begin to speak and give the word of command, these decide as to the general order of rank of its values and determine ultimately its list of desirable things.
A man's estimates of value betray something of the structure of his soul, and wherein it sees its conditions of life, its intrinsic needs.
Profound suffering makes noble. It separates. One of the most refined forms of disguise is epicurism, along with a certain ostentatious boldness of taste, which takes suffering lightly and puts itself on the defensive against all that is sorrowful and profound.
The highest instinct for purity places him who is affected with it in the most extraordinary and dangerous isolation as a saint. For it is just holiness, the highest spiritualization of the instinct in question.
Occasionally, too, the waking call comes too late. The chance which gives permission to take action when their best youth and strength for action have been used up in sitting still, and how many of one, just as he sprang up, is found with horror that his limbs are benumbed, and his spirits are now too heavy.
And whoever thou art, what is it that now pleases thee?
Only name it whatever I have I offer thee.
But you misunderstand him when you complain about it.
There must be a sort of repugnance in me to believe anything definite about myself. Is there perhaps some enigma therein?
Probably, but fortunately nothing for my own teeth. Perhaps it betrays the species to which I belong, but not to myself as it is sufficiently agreeable to me. But what has happened to you?
I do not know," he said hesitatingly. Perhaps the harpies have flown over my table.
To suffocate with his memories? To him who has the desires of a lofty and dainty soul and only seldom finds his table-laid and his food prepared, the danger will always be great. Nowadays, however, it is extraordinarily so.
and to choose for company that roguish and cheerful vice politeness.
It was about noon when Captain Waverly entered the Straggling Village or rather Hamlet of Tuleve-Alon, close to which was situated the mansion of the proprietor.
The houses seemed miserable in the extreme, especially to an eye accustomed to the smiling neatness of English cottages.
Occasionally, indeed, when such a consummation seemed inevitable, a watchful old grand-damn with her close-cap, dis-staff, and spindle, rushed like a sibil and frenzy out of one of these miserable cells, dashed into the middle of the path, and snatching up her own charge from among the sun-burnt loiterers, saluted him with a sound cuff, and transported him back to his dungeon. The little white-headed varlate screaming all the while from the very top of his lungs, a shrilly treble to the growling, remonstrain
The evil and remedy such as it is still exist, but this is remote from our present purpose and is only thrown out for consideration of the collectors under Mr. Dent's dog bill.
Yet the physiognomy of the people, when more closely examined, was far from exhibiting the indifference of stupidity. Their features were rough, but remarkably intelligent. Grave. But the very reverse of stupid. And from among the young women, an artist might have chosen more than one model whose features and form resembled those of Minerva.
This avenue was straight and of moderate length, running between a double row of very ancient horse chestnuts, planted alternately with sycamores, which rose to such huge heights and nourished so luxuriantly that their bows completely over-arched the broad roadpenny.
It was one of those effects which a painter loves to represent and mingled well with the struggling light, which found its way between the bowels of the shady ark that vaulted the broad green alley.
The house, which seemed to consist of two or three high, narrow, and steep-roofed buildings, projecting from each other at right angles, formed one side of the enclosure.
It had been built at a period when castles were no longer necessary and when the Scottish architects had not yet acquired the art of designing a domestic residence.
Neither did the front indicate absolute security from danger.
Stables and other offices occupied another side of the square.
Two battle-mentored walls, one of which faced the avenue and the other divided the court from the garden, completed the enclosure.
This work of art was the wonder of the country ten miles round.
The court was facious, well paved, and perfectly clean. There being probably another entrance behind the stables for removing the litter.
Everything around appeared solitary and would have been silent but for the continued plashing of the fountain, and the whole scene still maintained the monastic illusion which the fancy of Waverly had conjured up.
Chapter 33 A Confident
Mr. Morton replied, The far from making any claim upon his good opinion, his only wish and the sole purpose of his visit was to find out the means of deserving it.
Evil to him that thinks otherwise," said Mr. Morton, or who holds church government and ceremonies as the exclusive gauge of Christian faith are moral virtue.
Mr. Morton seemed particularly struck with the account of Waverly's visit to Donald B. Lean.
When I was a young man like you, Mr. Waverly, any such hair-brained expedition I beg your pardon for the expression, would have had inexpressible charms for me.
He certainly possesses talents beyond the root sphere in which he moves, and being neither destitute of ambition nor encumbered with spruples. He will probably attempt by every means to distinguish himself during the period of these unhappy commotions.
Mr. Morton then made a careful memorandum of the various particulars of Waverley's interview with Donald Bean-Ling and the other circumstances which he had communicated.
He had neither sympathy with my innocence, nor with my wretchedness, and the petrifying accuracy with which he attended to every form of civility, while he tortured me by his questions, his suspicions, and his inferences, was as tormenting as the racks of the Inquisition.
They held conventional in the open fields and being treated with great violence and cruelty by the Scottish government, more than once took arms during those rains.
Since that time, their numbers have gradually diminished. But a good many are still to be found in the western counties and several with a better temper than in 1707 have now taken arms for government.
It had no ornamentation being exceedingly plain in appearance.
Here," said one of their guides, as the procession halted before the little stone building, is the palace of Tormeline, who is our queen.
What? That little cabin?
Explain, Tret? Of course!
Did you suppose a palace would be like one of our handsome residences? Ask the woman, evidently surprised.
These intruders are very peculiar people, remark to man in the crowd.
They seem very ignorant, poor things," said another in reply.
The people must wait outside for there is no room for them in the palace.
So they followed her through the low archway and in a room beyond, very simply furnished, sat a young girl engaged in darning a pair of pink stockings.
She was a beautiful girl of about 17 years of age, not fat like all the rest of the pinkies, but slender and well-formed according to our own ideas of beauty.
Her complexion was not a decided pink, but a soft rosy tint not much deeper than that of trot skin.
What is it, Corley? She asked the woman.
The Queen gazed upon our friends with evident interest.
She smiled a little sadly at trot, seemed to approve of button-bright's open, frank face, and was quite surprised because Catenville was so much bigger than her own people.
Are you a giant?
Perhaps you are trying to ridicule me," she continued, regarding the sailor's face closely.
There is nothing majestic about me as you know very well.
Corley, do you consider majesty a proper word to use when addressing a queen?
Even in America everybody bows low to our president and the blue skins are so afraid of their boularoo that they tremble whenever they go near him.
But surely that is all wrong, said tourmaline gravely.
Therefore, I am a mere agent to direct the laws, which are the will of the people, and I am only a public servant obliged constantly to guard the welfare of my subjects.
In that case, said Buttonbright, you're entitled to the best there is, to pay for your trouble.
If I lived as luxuriously as my people do, and had servants and costly gowns, the good pinkies would say that their queen had more than they themselves, and it would be true.
No. Our way is best.
The queen is nothing but the power to execute the laws, to adjust grievances and to compel order.
I have one great privilege.
After my death, the pink marble statue of me will be set up in the Grand Court, with the statues of the other kings and queens who have ruled this land, and all the pinkies and ages to come will then honor me as having been a just and upright queen. That is my reward.
A misfortune of birth placed me here and I cannot escape my fate.
It is much more desirable to be a private citizen happy and carefree.
Yes, it was wet and sticky, y'all rat. Agreed the sailor. But the big frog helped us and we got through all rat.
You are not like my people, the pinkies, and there is no place for you in our country.
In all our history, you are the first people from outside our borders who have ever stepped afoot in our land.
We do not hate you as you say the blue skins do, nor are we savage or cruel, but we do not want you here and I'm really puzzled what to do with you.
I'll look in the great book first.
the savage philosopher, the dual mind.
The original attitude of the American Indian toward the eternal, the great mystery that surrounds and embraces us, was as simple as it was exalted.
It was silent because all speech is of necessity feeble and imperfect. Therefore the souls of my ancestors ascend to God in wordless adoration.
None might exhort or confess or in any way meddle with the religious experience of another.
Among us all men were created sons of God and stood erect as conscious of their divinity.
That solitary communion with the unseen which was the highest expression of our religious life is partly described in the word bamba de literally mysterious feeling which has been variously translated fasting and dreaming
The first Bambhay, or religious retreat, marked in epoch in the life of the youth, which may be compared to that of confirmation or conversion in the Christian experience.
Knowing that God sets no value upon material things, he took with him no offerings or sacrifices other than symbolic objects such as paints and tobacco.
At the solemn hour of sunrise or sunset, he took up his position overlooking the glories of earth and facing the great mystery. And there he remained, naked, erect, silent, and motionless, exposed to the elements and forces of his army, for a night and a day to two days and nights, but rarely longer,
When he returned to the camp, he must remain at a distance until he had again entered the vapor bath and prepared himself for intercourse with his fellows.
It was not then, wholly from ignorance or in providence, that he failed to establish permanent towns and to develop a material civilization.
To the untutored sage, the concentration of population was the prolific mother of all evils, moral no less than physical.
In this type of prayer there was no beseeching of favor or help.
From the sun, as the universal Father, proceeds the quickening principle in nature, and in the patient and fruitful womb of our mother, the earth, our hidden embryos of plants and men.
This is the material or physical prayer.
Nothing of the marvelous could astonish him, as that a beast should speak or the sun stands till.
Who may condemn his superstition?
Here is the supreme mystery that is the essence of worship, without which there can be no religion and in the presence of this mystery our attitude cannot be very unlike that of the natural philosopher who beholds with awe the divine in all creation.
In his own thought he rose superior to them. He scorned them, even as a lofty spirit absorbed in its stern task rejects the soft beds, the luxurious food, the pleasure-worshiping dallions of the rich neighbor.
The historians of the White race admit that the Indian was never the first to repudiate his oath.
He had neither a national army nor an organized church.
Her attitude and secret meditations must be such as to instill into the receptive soul of the unborn child the love of the great mystery and a sense of brotherhood with all creation.
The ordeal is best met alone, where no curious or pitying eyes embarrass her, where all nature says to her spirit, "'Tis love, tis love, the fulfilling of life."
This wild mother has not only the experience of her mother and grandmother and the accepted rules of her people for a guide, but she humbly seeks to learn a lesson from ants, bees, spiders, beavers, and badgers.
In due time, the child takes of his own accord, the attitude of prayer, and speaks reverently of the powers.
Indeed, the distinctive work of both grandparents is that of acquainting the youth with the national traditions and beliefs.
The family was not only the social unit, but also the unit of government.
The remoter degrees of kinship were fully recognized, and that not as a matter of form only. First cousins were known as brothers and sisters. The name of cousin constituted a binding claim, an or rigid morality forbade marriage between cousins in any known degree, or in other words within the clan.
when she fell, the whole race fell with her.
Before this calamity came upon us, you could not find anywhere a happier home than that created by the Indian woman.
His daily devotions were more necessary to him than daily food.
Whenever, in the course of the daily hunt, the red hunter comes upon a scene that is strikingly beautiful or sublime, a black thundercloud with the rainbow's glowing arch above the mountain, a white waterfall in the heart of the green gorge, a vast prairie tinged with the blood red of sunset, he pauses for an instant in the attitude of worship.
When he becomes an old man, he loves to make a notable effort to prove his gratitude.
He cuts off the choices morsel of the meat and casts it into the fire, the purest and most ethereal element.
The hospitality of the Whigwam is only limited by the institution of war.
Our honor is the guarantee for safety so long as he is within the camp.
Love between man and woman is founded on the mating instinct and is not free from desire and self-seeking.
But to have a friend and to be true under any and all trials is the mark of a man.
This bond is between man and man, is usually formed in early youth and can only be broken by death.
reincarnation and the converse of spirits.
Therefore, he courts death in battle, on the other hand he would regard it as disgraceful to be killed in a private quarrel.
The men black in their faces and widows are bereaved parents, sometimes gash their arms and legs till they are covered with blood.
Giving themselves a pulley to their grief, they are no longer concerned about any earthly possession and often give away all that they have to the first comers, even to their beds and their home.
It was prepared by dressing and the finest clothes together with some personal possessions and ornaments wrapped in several robes and finally in a secure covering of rawhide.
As a special mark of respect, the body of a young woman or a warrior was sometimes laid out in state in a new tippy with the usual household articles and even with a dish of food left beside it, not that they suppose the spirit could use the implements or eat the food but merely as a last tribute.
If a man were slain in battle, it was an old custom to place his body against a tree or rock in a sitting position, always facing the enemy to indicate his undaunted defiance and bravery even in death.
At every meal time, a dish of food was placed under it, and some person of the same sex and age as the one who was gone must afterward be invited in to partake of the food.
At the end of a year from the time of death, the relatives made a public feast and gave away the clothing and other gifts, while the lock of hair was interred with appropriate ceremonies.
It is well known that the American Indian had somehow developed occult power, and although in the latter days there have been many imposters, and allowing for the vanity and weakness of human nature, it is fair to assume that there must have been some even in the old days, yet there are well-attested instances of remarkable prophecies and other mystic practice.
No doubt many predictions have been colored to suit the new age and unquestionably false prophets, fakers, and conjurers have become the pest of the tribes during the transition period.
This was carried out to the letter.
This was only one of his remarkable prophecies.
Another famous medicine man was born on the Rum River about 150 years ago and lived to be over a century old.
At the age of about 75 years, he saved his ban from utter destruction at the hands of their ancestral enemies by suddenly giving warning received in a dream of the approach of a large war party.
Five years later, he repeated the service and again saved his people from awful slaughter.
There are many trustworthy men and men of Christian faith to vouch for these in similar events occurring as foretold.
At another time, when I was 14 years old, we had just left Fort Ellis on the Asinabon River, and my youngest uncle had selected a fine spot for our night camp.
Many of the Indians believed that one may be born more than once, and there were some who claimed to have full knowledge of a former incarnation.
There was a well-known Sioux War Prophet who lived in the middle of the last century so that he is still remembered by the old men of his band.
Shiloh
This was the first big battle in which our regiment had ever been engaged.
I do not pretend to tell of what command distinguished itself of heroes, of blood and wounds, of shrieks and groans, of brilliant charges, of canon captured, etc.
About daylight on Sunday morning, Chalmers Brigade relieved gladdens.
As Gladden rode by us, a courier rode up and told him something.
On Sunday morning, a clear, beautiful, and still day, the order was given for the whole army to advance and to attack immediately.
We were supporting an Alabama Brigade.
That's right, my brave First Tennessee. Give them a hail, Columbia.
The fact was kept from the troops.
We had to pass over the ground where troops had been fighting all day.
I had heard and read of battlefields, seen pictures of battlefields, of horses and men of Tannen and wagons all jumbled together, while the ground was strewn with dead and dying and wounded. But I must confess that I never realized the pomp and circumstance of the thing called glorious war until I saw this.
I had been feeling mean all the morning as if I had stolen a sheep, but when the order to charge was given, I got happy.
Officers could not curb the men to keep in line.
On Monday, the tide was reversed.
But as I said before, reader, a private soldier is but an automaton, and knows nothing of what is going on among the generals, and I am only giving the chronicles of little things and events that came under my own observation as I saw them then and remember them now.
Should you desire to find out more about the battle, I refer you to history.
About the time he pulled trigger a stray ball from some direction struck him in the side and he fell off dead and his horse becoming frightened galloped off, dragging him through the Confederate lines.
On Monday morning, I too captured me a mule.
It was wise in his own conceit.
I frequently thought it would be pleasant to split the difference with that mule, and I would gladly have done so if I could have gotten one half of his know.
Mule did not desire to cross, while I was trying to persuade him with a big stick, a rock in his ear, and a twister on his nose.
So we got a large 2 inch rope tied one and around the mule's neck and the other to the case on and ordered the driver to whip up.
The rope, however, was stronger than the mules know, and he was finally prevailed upon by the strength of the rope to cross the creek.
And while I'm taking the rope off, he shook himself and seemed to say, You think that you are mighty smart folks, but you are a little too smart.
We remained several months, but soon we were on the tramp again.
The Federal Army was concentrating at Nashville. There was no rest for the weary.
Our army stopped at Murfreesboro.
From time to time, different regiments were sent forward to do picket duty.
The Yankee Picket lines were not a half mile off.
I am a vidette. You know the responsibility resting on me.
Says he, I would not trust a sisash on his word, oath, or bond. March, I say.
I soon found out that he had caught sight of the relief on the road and was afraid to shoot. I quickly made up my mind.
My gun was at my feet and one step would get it.
I made a quick glance over my shoulder and grabbed my gun.
he defined my motive and fired. The ball missed its aim.
I think we must have killed a good many in the old field because we were firing all the time at the solid line as they advanced upon us.
We kept falling back and firing all day, and were relieved by another regiment about dark. We rejoined our regiment.
Line of battle was formed on the north bank of Stone's River on the Yankee side.
Bad general ship I thought it was Christmas
The private could, but he was no general, you see.
I call Lieutenant Colonel Frierson's attention to the Yankees, and he remarked, Well, I don't know whether they are Yankees or not. But if they are, they will come out of their mighty quick.
The Yankees marched over the hill out of sight.
We were ordered forward to the attack.
We were right upon the Yankee line on the Wilkerson Turnpike.
We were not twenty yards off from the Yankees, and they were pouring the hot shot and shells right into our ranks, and every man was yelling at the top of his voice, "'Sees firing, you are firing on your own men! Sees firing, you are firing on your own men!"
Oakley, color bearer of the 4th Tennessee Regiment, ran right up in the midst of the Acculon with his colors, begging his men to follow.
The leaden hail storm swept them off the field. They fell back and reformed.
We were at that time at least a hundred yards in advance of the brigade, cheat them all the time calling upon the men to come on.
I saw and felt that he was not fighting for glory, but that he was fighting for his country because he loved that country, and he was willing to give his life for his country and the success of our cause.
I thought it had been torn from my shoulder.
As I went back to the field hospital, I overtook another man walking along.
I looked at it pretty close and I said, great God.
He was walking along, and once he dropped down and died without a struggle or a groan.
But it could not bear the thought of wearing dead men's shoes.
He was stone dead, but I dropped that foot quick.
Before we arrived at the house, we saw a body of Yankees approaching, and as we started to run back, they fired upon us.
Our pickets had run in and reported a night attack.
Advance into Tennessee.
Yank says, what are you doing, Johnny?
We passed around Atlanta, crossed the Chattahoochee, and traveled back over the same route on which we had made the arduous campaign under Joe Johnson.
Outside of these occasional reminders, we could see no evidence of the desolation of the track of an invading army.
We saw the United States flag flying from the ramparts and thought that yank would probably be asleep or catching lice or maybe engaged in a game of 7-up.
He walked up and says, Hello boys, what is it boss?
Ayaki always says, nagar.
They persuade it eloquently.
A man on the well.
The voice appeared to be overhead.
Right before me I saw the long, dry grass all bending toward a common center, and I knew that it was an old well, and that my comrade had fallen in it.
But how to get him out was the unsolved problem.
The poor fellas stayed in that well all night.
We looked all around and thought that the coast was clear.
I don't think his gun was loaded though, because we did not hear the ball whistle.
We walked over this floating bridge and soon found ourselves on the Tennessee side of Tennessee River.
We had beef for supper that night.
How every pulse did beat and leap, and how every heart did throb with emotions of joy, which seemed nearly akin to heaven when we received the glad intelligence of our onward march toward the land of promise and of our loved ones.
We were inured to privations and hardships, had been upon every march, in every battle, in every skirmish, in every advance, in every retreat, in every victory, in every defeat.
He wanted to go buy home and tell his wife and children goodbye and to get his clothes. It was no go.
But after a while, Jim says, Gentlemen, I, Ganny, the Law.
You see, Jim knowed the law.
Those old soldiers had long, long ago forgotten about that old law of the long gone past, but Jim had treasured it up in his memory, lo these many years, and he thought it would serve him now as it had no doubt frequently done in the past.
The third day it was reported that the Yankees had taken position on the Murfreesboro Pike.
A regiment was sent to the attack. It was Jim's regiment.
He hadn't seen anything to shoot at, but he blazed away. He loaded and fired the second time when they were ordered to retreat.
But is laughter a synonym of joy?
Such perfect completeness is not in nature.
Had Gwyn plain, when a child been so worthy of attention, that his face had been subjected to transmutation? Why not?
According to all appearance, industrious manipulators of children had worked upon his face.
It seemed evident that a mysterious and probably occult science, which was to surgery what alchemy was to chemistry, had chiseled his flesh, evidently at a very tender age, and manufactured his countenance with premeditation.
Gwyn plain was a mount-a-bank.
He showed himself on the platform.
It was Gwyn Plains laugh which created the laughter of others, yet he did not laugh himself.
The outside did not depend on the interior.
No one could escape from this, Richtus.
All his emotions, whatever they might have been, augmented his strange face of joy, or to speak more correctly, aggravated it.
and everlasting laugh.
The Manicians believed the absolute occasionally gives way, and that God Himself sometimes abdicates for a time. So also of the will.
The whole of existence resembles a letter modified in the postscript.
With this exception, Gwen Plains laugh was everlasting.
The joyous convulsion of laughter was as attribute paid. They submitted to it gladly, but almost mechanically.
Besides, we must remember that they had in those times, means of putting patience to sleep, and of suppressing all suffering. Only then it was called magic, while now it is called anesthesia.
Besides this face, those who had brought him up had given him the resources of a gymnast and an athlete.
Gwenplane had yellow hair.
His hair having probably been dyed with some corrosive preparation had left it woolly and rough to the touch.
Its yellow bristles, rather a mane than a head of hair, covered and concealed a lofty brow, evidently made to contain thought.
The operation, whatever it had been, which had deprived his features of harmony, and put all their flesh into disorder, had had no effect on the bony structure of his head.
What true things are told in stories?
In Gwyn Plains, evil thoughts never ripened, and he had therefore no remorse.
What was this? Nothing.
From 1680 to 1704, a great change had taken place.
The wheels were all of the same size and high as wagon wheels.
This green color had succeeded in drawing attention to the carriage, which was known in all the fairgrounds as the green box.
On the roof from a tube painted green like the rest, smoke a rose.
The astonishment with which the villagers regarded this machine was overwhelming.
This was the old establishment of Ursus, its proportions augmented by success, and improved from a wretched booth into a theater.
Unknown people had worked upon his face. He, on the other hand, had worked on his mind. And behind this well-executed mask, he had placed all that he could have thought.
The effect of his appearance had been surprising.
Some believed it to be natural. Others declared it to be artificial. An Azkundjekture was added to reality, everywhere at every crossroad on the journey. In all the grounds of fairs and fates, the crowd ran after Gwenplane.
The curiosity of one place exhausted. They passed on to another.
This fortune had allowed Ursus, who was the administrator of Gwynplain's success, to have the chariot of his dreams constructed. That is to say, a caravan large enough to carry a theater, and to sow science and art in the highways.
For these red, Phoebe, and Venus that we may conform to English pronunciation.
Phoebe cooked, Venus grabbed the temple.
Ursus and Homo took charge of each other.
This hut, in a corner at the back, to the right of the door, served as bedchamber and dressing-room to Ursus in Gwynplain.
The caravan was divided into three compartments, partitioned from each other.
A loft under the arch of the roof contained the scenes, and on opening a trap-door lamps appeared, producing wonders of light.
Ursus was the poet of these magical representations. He wrote the pieces.
Then I look perhaps like what I am.
This opening looked for all the world like a mouth of hell. In the words of the itinerant Puritan preachers, who turned away from it with horror.
Ursus wasn't everything, in the piece, in the company, in the kitchen, in the orchestra.
It was established at South Work.
The dome of St. Paul's was a delight to Ursus.
St. Paul is a saint, only with extenuating circumstances.
He entered heaven only by the artist's door.
It might have been ordered for the green box.
It was a theater ready-made.
against this wall was placed the green box, which they were able to draw into the yard owing to the height of the gate.
The placard, Gwyn plain the laughing man, taken from its nail in the green box, was hung up close to the sign of the inn.
By the side of the door was constructed offhand, by means of an empty barrel, a box for the money-taker, who was sometimes phoebe and sometimes phinos.
We are in London," said Ursus. We must be prepared for the gentry.
They began their performances.
With that exception, their success became so great that no mount-to-bank memory could recall its parallel.
All South work ran in crowds to admire the laughing man.
The Mary Andrews and Mounted Banks of Tarinzo Field were a gasket windplane.
GwenPlane ate up their public.
Besides the small fry, the swallowers of swords and the grimace makers, real performances took place on the green.
Even this comedian of Jaws and Claws was eclipsed in success.
That success was prodigious. Still, it remained local.
It took 130 years for the name of Shakespeare to penetrate from England into France.
The glory of Gwynplain had not passed London Bridge.
These were remarkable talents.
Besides this, he haranged like Cicero, as we have just seen, sold his drugs, attended sickness, and even healed the sick.
Ursus was satisfied with the applause of Southwark, but by no means astonished.
At every performance, the yard of the inn, transformed into a pit, was filled with a ragged and enthusiastic audience.
The emptying of tankards did not decrease their success.
This connoisseur was suddenly fascinated and had adopted the laughing man.
He did not come every evening, but when he came he led the public. A plaza grew into acclamation. Success rose not to the roof, for there was none, but to the clouds, for there were plenty of them.
Which clouds, seeing that there was no roof, sometimes weft over the masterpiece of Ursus?
His enthusiasm caused Ursus to remark this man and Gwynplane to observe him.
They had a great friend in this unknown visitor.
One evening, Ursus was in the side scene, which was the kitchen door of the green box. Seeing Master Nicholas standing by him, showed him this man in the crowd and asked him,
What a pity that he should not be a Lord.
He would make a famous scoundrel.
At that hour there was no one in the fairground except perhaps some reeling drunkard, making staggering shadows and dark corners.
On the second of the month, at two in the morning, our precious cargo of luggage was taken on board the Good Ship Valkyrie.
But in the cause of science, men are expected to suffer.
Well, and have we a fair wind?
My uncle was delighted. For myself, Moody and dissatisfied, I appeared almost to expect a glimpse of the ghost of Hamlet.
But no ghost or anything else appeared upon the ancient walls.
The fact is, the castle is much later than the time of the heroic Prince of Denmark.
No, Mr. Hardwig said the captain. No fear of that.
At all events, we shall get there someday.
On the 11th day we sighted Cape Portland over which towered Mount Midrills Yokel, which the weather being clear, we made out very readily.
The Valkyrie kept off the coast, steering to the westward.
On all sides were to be seen whole schools of whales and sharks.
Nearly the whole population of the town was on foot to see us land.
The fact was that scarcely any one of them but expected some goods by the periodical vessel.
Then, without further a remark, he put his finger to his lips, frown darkly, and descend it into the small boat which awaited us.
He was, however, but a civil servant, a magistrate, the governor of the island, Baron Tramp.
The professor knew whom he had to deal with.
This modest scholar spoke no languages save Icelandic and Latin.
When, therefore, he addressed himself to me in the language of Horus, we at once came to understand one another.
Now Harry, said my uncle, rubbing his hands. On goes well. The worst difficulty is now over.
In the meantime, there is not an hour to lose.
Very likely I may find there's some manuscripts from the hand of Sakhnousum.
I shall be glad to consult them.
They were now, however, absent on duty.
Though not very large, it appeared not likely to be filled for centuries.
I have not the slightest doubt that in high winds its red tiles were blown out to the great annoyance of the pastor in congregation.
Thanks to the heat of these residences, grass grows in the roof, which grass is carefully cut for hay.
I saw but few inhabitants during my excursion, but I met a crowd on the beach, drying, salting, and loading codfish, the principal article of Exportation.
The men appeared robust but heavy, fair-haired like Germans, but of pensive mean, exiles of a higher scale in the latter of humanity than the Eskimos, but I thought much more unhappy, since with superior perceptions they are compelled to live within the limits of the polar circle.
I began to enjoy the exhilarating delight of traveling, a life of desire, gratification, and liberty.
Hans, our extraordinary guide, went first, walking with a steady, rapid, unvarying step.
Our two horses with the luggage fall out of their own accord, without requiring whip or spur.
Geographers have divided it into four parts and we had to cross the southwest quarter which in the vernacular is called Sudvest Fjordinger.
We took our way through poor and sparse meadows, which made a desperate effort every year to show a little green.
They very rarely succeeded in a good show of yellow.
I could not help smiling to see him look so big on his little horse. His long legs, now and then touching the ground, made him look like a six-footed centaur.
Snow, tempest, impracticable roads, rocks, icebergs, nothing stops him.
We may do so was my reply, but what about our worthy guide?
I should have a violent attack of the cramp if I were not to have some sort of exercise.
My arms are right, but my legs are getting a little stiff.
Here and there could be seen an isolated farm, some solitary burr or isolent a cows, built of wood, earth, fragments of lava, looking like beggars in the highway of life.
A few stray cows and sheep were only seen occasionally.
Little did I expect, however, the spectacle which awaited us when we reached the peninsula of Sniffles, where agglomerations of nature's ruins form a kind of terrible chaos.
It consists simply of a few houses, not what in England or Germany we should call a hamlet.
I took occasion to consult the map to see where Garter was to be found.
The sacred edifices are, however, very much like these people who do without watches and never miss them.
Turrito-result water upon the back of a little horse seemed to me absurd.
In any case, I shall trust rather to my own intelligence than theirs.
But my uncle wasn't no humor to wait.
At length, the sturdy little pony, spreading out his legs in a stiff and ludicrous attitude, got from under the professor's legs and left him standing with both feet on a separate stone like the Colossus of Rhodes.
He says, Tide replied my uncle, translating the Danish word for my information.
I thoroughly understood and appreciated the necessity for waiting before crossing the fjord, for that moment when the sea at its highest point is in a state of slack water.
A customed, as I had been to the steam ferry boats of the Elb, I found the long oars of the boatman but sorry means of locomotion.
But this power of discernment was denied them, and only in after years, with the loved ones of their own firesides close about them, was the whole picture revealed.
One dark knight, at the head of a score of his tribe, he fell upon Wobigawan's camp, his object being the abduction of the princess.
While the attack was successful in a way, its main purpose failed.
A counterattack was made upon Wunga, and he was driven deep into the wilderness with great loss.
Three days later, Minnetake became Newsom's wife at the Hudson Bay Post.
From that hour, dated one of the most sanguinary feuds in the history of the Great Trading Company, a feud which, as we shall see, was destined to live even unto the second generation.
Meanwhile, two children came to bless the happy union of Newsome and his lovely Indian wife.
The other was a girl, three years younger, and Newsom insisted that she be called Minnetake.
Curiously enough, the blood of Wabi ran almost pure to his Indian forefathers, while Minnetake, as she became older, developed less of the wild beauty of her mother and more of the softer loveliness of the white race, her wealth of soft, jet-black hair and her great-dark eyes contrasting with the lighter skin of her father's blood.
Wabi, on the other hand, was an Indian in appearance from his moccasins to the crown of his head, swarthy, sinewy, and agile as a lynx, and with every instinct in him crying for the life of the wild.
One of Newsom's chief pleasures in life had been the educating of his woodland bride, and it was the ambition of both that the little Minnetake and her brother be reared in the ways of white children.
Consequently, both mother and father began their education at the post. They were sent to the Factor School, and two winters were passed in Port Arthur that they might have the advantage of thoroughly equipped schools.
The children proved themselves unusually bright pupils, and by the time Wabi was 16 and Minitake 12, one would not have known from their manner of speech that Indian blood ran in their veins.
It was at about this time in their lives that the Wungas became especially daring in their depredations.
At last, so daring did he become that the provincial government placed a price upon his head and upon those of a number of his most notorious followers.
but each week added to his loneliness and his longings for Minitake and his forests.
Necessity had become his grim master and the following week he was going to work.
A thousand plans were made, a thousand adventures pictured, and the mother would smile and laugh and plan with them.
But in time, the end of it all came, and Wabi went back to the Princess Mother to Minitake and to his forests.
There were tears in the boy's eyes when they parted, and the mother cried for the Indian boy who was returning to his people.
Spring came in past and then summer.
We shall make more money up here this winter than you could earn in Detroit in three years.
We will hunt wolves. The country is alive with them, and the government gives a bounty of fifteen dollars for every scalp taken.
Three weeks later, came what Bigelowons reply.
On the 10th of October, he would meet Rod at Sprucewood on the Black Sturgeon River.
There was little time to lose in making preparations, and the fourth day following the receipt of Wabi's letter found Rod and his mother waiting for the train which was to whirl the boy into his new life.
Chapter 7. The Homecoming
Krenelianitis Talbot regarded the white flag with feelings in which triumph and sadness were mingled strangely.
But the emotions of Harry and his comrades were, for the moment, those of victory only.
Boats put out both from the fort and the shore.
The smoke itself, which had formed a vast cloud over the harbor, Forts and City, was now drifting out to sea, leaving all things at sharply in the dazzling sunlight of a southern spring day.
That white flag in those boats going out mean that someter is ours.
but the negotiations were soon completed.
All the amenities were preserved between the captured garrison and their captors.
The great state of Virginia, mother of presidents, went out of the Union at last. In North Carolina, Tennessee and Arkansas followed her. But Maryland, Kentucky and Missouri still hung in the balance.
Lincoln had called for volunteers to put down a rebellion, but Harry heard everywhere in Charleston that the Confederacy was now secure.
The progress of President Davis to the new capital set in the very face of the foe was to be one huge triumph of faith and loyalty.
There was not a single note of gloom.
Europe, which must have its cotton, would favor the success of the South.
an extraordinary wave of emotion swept over the south carrying everybody with it.
Beauregard at once wrote an order.
Colonel Kenton writes wisely.
We need Kentucky and I understand that a very little more may bring the state to us. Go with your father. I understand that you have been a brave young soldier here and may you do as well up there.
Harry, feeling pride but not showing it, saluted and left the room, going at once to Madame Doulans, where he had left his baggage.
He intended to leave early in the morning, but first he saw his friends and told them goodbye.
Harry gave his farewells with deep and genuine regret.
Whether their manner was grave or frivolous, he knew that these were good friends of his and he sincerely hoped that he would meet them again.
It was a different Harry who started home late in April.
Four months had made great changes. He bore himself more like a man. His manner was much more considered in grave.
He had seen great things and he had done his share of them.
He gazed upon a world full of responsibilities and perils.
But he looked back at Charleston, the gay, the volatile, and the beautiful, with real affection.
It was almost buried now in flowers and foliage.
He was going home after victory.
He soon left Charleston out of sight.
He felt the difference as soon as he reached the hills of his native state.
People were cooler here and they were more prone to look at the two sides of a question.
The air too was unlike that of South Carolina. There was a sharper tang to it.
It whipped his blood as it blew down from the slopes and crests.
It was afternoon when he reached the little station of Wynton, and left the train a tall, sturdy boy, the superior of many a man in size, strength, and agility.
There were never before such times an old Kentucky.
Bill Skelly and his gang, them mountaineers are up.
He did not say the last as a boast, but merely as an assurance to the livery man who he saw was anxious on his account.
If you've got pistols, just you think once before you shoot," said Collins.
Harry thanked him through his saddlebags across the horse, a powerful bay, and giving a final wave of his hand to the sympathetic liveryman, rode away.
This was not the fashion of a year ago when they exchanged a friendly word or two, but Harry knew its cause. Now nobody could trust anybody else.
But he saw nothing that moved there. No signal lights twinkled.
One winter evening. As soon as his work was over for the day, Joseph locked the door of his smithy, washed himself well, put on clean clothes, and, taking his violin, set out for test-bridge. Mary was expecting him to tea.
It was the afternoon of a holiday, and she had closed early.
Was there ever a happier man than Joseph that night as he strode along the footpath?
He pressed his violin case to his heart as if it were a living thing that could know that he loved it.
Earth was gone, and heaven was all.
Blessed am I here now, my God, and blessed shall I be there then.
When he reached the suburbs, the light of homes was shining through curtains of all colors.
Just then, he was in no mood to think of the sorrows.
The nettle in the dark, said Joseph.
He was in a mood for music, was he not?
He laid down his vile inn and seated himself where Mary told him in her father's armchair by the fire.
Letty, finding herself not quite equal to the emergency, came in her turn to call Mary. She went as quietly as if she were leaving a tiresome visitor.
The music was broken, and Joseph left alone with the dumb instruments.
But in his hands, solitude and a violin were sure to marry in music.
They sat down and listened in silence.
Her heart seemed to swell up into her throat, and it was all she could do to keep from weeping.
a little longer, and she was compelled to yield, and the silent tears flowed freely.
Letty, too, was overcome more than ever she had been by music.
Let buttermood be strong enough. And the soul, clothing itself in that mood is with a garment, can walk abroad and haunt the world.
It cried aloud that eternity was very long and like a great palace without a quiet room.
Nor was this exactly the shape the thing took to the consciousness of the musician.
I love the, I love the cried the vile in and the worship was in treaty that knew not itself.
Hest thou yet to learn that the love of the human is love, is divine, is but a lower form of the part of the love of God?
When thou love us man, or woman or child, yea, or even dog, or right, then wilt thou no longer need that I tell thee, how God and his Christ would not be content with each other alone in the glories even of the eternal original love, because they could create more love.
He that loveth not his brother, whom he hath seen. How shall we love God whom he hath not seen?
A sob, like a bird new born, burst from Mary's bosom.
that enchantment had possessed him, usurping as it were the throne of his life and displacing it. When it ceased, he was not his own master.
He started to conscious confusion only, neither knowing where he was nor what he did.
How it happened he never could tell, but he brought down his violin with a crash against the piano. That then somehow stumbled and all but fell.
In the act of recovering himself, he heard the neck of his instrument part from the body with a tearing, discordant cry like the sound of the ruin of a living world.
His violin was broken, but his being was made whole.
His treasure taken, type of his self, and a woman given him instead.
It's just like him. He murmured.
You'll all be over if you don't have a care.
Looks like a clump of bushes down there, but I ain't sure. Can you make it out?
Yes, a great tent that does look like bushes.
Don't move around like perfectly still warns the guide. Are you hurt?
And that tumble is enough to knock the sense out of a full grown man.
I could not think of allowing any of my charges to take so terrible a risk at
No, I am the lighter of the two urged, Had.
I am the one to go after Walt if anyone has to. I'll go down, Mr. Thomas.
Master Ted is right, decided the guide, gazing at the two boys, approvingly.
I protest, shouted the professor.
You'd have both of us at the bottom if I left it to you to take care of this end.
Be sure to fasten him securely to the loop before you get the signal to haul up. Worn the guide.
Are you ready? Yes.
He tilted his head to look up.
the movement sent his body swaying Italy from side to side.
consciously placing a hand against the rock, the setting himself. Ted wisely concluded that hereafter it would not pay to be too curious.
Slowly but steadily, the slender line was paid out, amid a tense silence on the part of the little group at the top of the canyon.
After what seemed to them hours, a sharp call from the depths reached their ears.
Lage quickly make fast the line to a tree.
I see him, called Tad, his voice sending hollow and unnatural to those above.
He is so far to the right of me that I can't reach him.
Launched in the branches of opinion tree. I think it is, but he doesn't answer me
Lige, leaning over the brink, was able to follow the boy's movements by the aid of the thin arc of light made by the torch in Tad's hand.
But from the cautious movements of the light far below them, the guide understood that the lad was at work, carrying out his part of the task of rescue to the best of his ability.
Maybe you think he's having some sort of a picnic down there eh? Lared lies?
Shall we haul up? Est la? She making a bigger phone with his hands? Yes, haul away!
Sure thing, answer the boy.
Nor was the sense of security increased when, in shift in his position, the torch fell from his grasp. The faggot scattering is a slip down between the limbs of the tree and whirling in ever diminishing circles until finally he heard them clatter on the rocks below.
He no doubt would bring food of some kind with him.
With a shout the boys dash pale male to meet the pack train and falling in behind the slow-moving burrows, urged them on with the risk of shouts and sundry resounding slaps on the animals' flanks.
Cold water is the most nourishing thing we've touched since last night.
We did not. It must have come to life sometime during the night and dug its way out, laugh, Tad.
and we've got a surprise for you and now Stacy's swelling with pride.
Jam, explain chunky, stretching his neck and eyeing the dish longingly.
Now fall too young gentleman, directed the professor.
I am afraid to admit that I am hungry too.
He buried his biscuit under a layer of jam over which he spread a thick coating of honey.
President Brown, I withdraw my criticism. I offer you my humble apologies.
I reckon there are, smiled the guide. We are in the bear country now.
Yes, the country is full of caves.
This announcement filled the boys with excitement!
But I know an old settler who will lend us his dog if it is not out.
Separ having been finished, the party gathered about the campfire for their evening chat, after which admonishing Stacey to keep within his tent and not to go borrowing trouble, the boys turned in for a sound sleep.
As yet they had been unable to attempt any fancy writing with their ponies owing to the rugged nature of the country through which they had been journeying.
The boys were now all anxiety to start while the ponies after their Sunday rest were almost as full of life as were their owners.
The little animals were becoming more sure-footed every day, and Ned said that before the trip was finished, Jimmy would be able to walk a slack rope.
An early strat was made, so that the party reached the promised table land shortly before 10 o'clock in the forenoon.
A temporary camp was quickly pitched.
The great green field, surrendered on all sides by tall trees, made to place an ideal one for their purpose.
It was a beautiful race, the little Indian ponies simming to enter thoroughly into the spirit of the contest, stretching themselves out to their full lengths and with heads on a level with their backs, fairly flew across the great plot of green.
All agreed that Ted's superior horsemanship alone had won the race for him.
Galloping into camp, the boy fetched his sombrero, which he carried well out into the field and tossed away.
Then, bidding the boys right up near the spot to watch him, he drew off some ten rods and, wheeling, spurred his pony to a red.
grasping the pommel with the left hand, it appeared to drive head first toward the ground.
They saw his long hair almost brush the grass. One of his hands swept down and up, and once more Ted Butler rose standing in his strips, uttering a cowboy yell is he waved at some railroad high.
that boys howled with delight. That is all did, safe Stacey Brown.
Ted is an experienced writer.
The first time he rode swiftly by it, leading over to look at the hat as he passed, holding to the pommel firmly with his left hand.
What's that for, demanded Ned, wonderingly?
Hat too close to me. I couldn't get it explained chunky. The boy's roared.
Why don't you move the pony?
Once more Stacy approached the Sombrero, his pony running well, and as he drew near it, they saw him rise in the saddle, just as Ted Butler had done a few minutes before.
At the moment when he freed his left foot from the stirrup, he threw his body sharply to the right, reaching for the hat without taking the precaution to grasp the pommel.
As a result, instead of stopping when he reached the hat, the boy kept on going.
Chapter 4 The First Night in Camp
Even if I can't sing, I can beat that.
Not on the range, why not, Commander the Boy?
A loud laugh followed at Chunky's expense.
The pony did most of it, admitted the land. I just gave him his head, and that's all there was to it.
Walter had gone out with the second guard, and the others had gathered around the campfire for their nightly storytelling.
None of you will be fit for duty tomorrow.
We've got a hard drive before, so every man must be fit as a fiddle.
Home from granted curly Adams
The cowboy did this very thing, but within an hour he found himself alone. The others having turned in one by one.
The lads found that a pair of blankets had been assigned to each of them, with an ordinary wagon sheet doubled for a tarpaulin.
These they spread out on the ground using boots wrapped in coats for pillows.
Sacy Brown proved the only grumbler in the lot, clearing that he could not sleep a week on such a bed as that.
The horses of the outfit, save those that were on night duty and two or three others that had developed a habit of straying, had been turned loose early in the evening, for animals on the trail are seldom staked down.
In spite of their hard couches, the pony rider slept soundly, even Professor Zeppelin himself never waking the whole night through.
She actually grumbled, turned over, and went to sleep again.
You won't be so fast to wake up hardworking cowboys after that, I reckon.
Lumpy Bates came running toward him, not daring to call out for fear of waking the camp.
Hi there, his slumpy, filled with dignity and nation that anyone should attempt to mount a pony from the right side.
Sacy Brown's left leg swung over the saddle.
Where are they? Ask the boy.
Keep it going, and if your luck-eagle run plum into them, was the jeering answers. The sleepy cowmen spurred their ponies on toward camp, muttering their disapproval of taking along a bunch of boys on the cattle drive.
Unless before the echoes of his voice and died away, a shrill of voice piped up from the tail end of the chuck wagon.
Grapile, Grapile!
Who is the Wrangler this morning?" asked the foreman, glancing about at his men.
A Wrangler is a Wrangler answered Bigfoot stoddly.
He's a fellow who's all the time making trouble, isn't he? S, Stacy, innocently.
Oh no, this kind of a Wrangler isn't left the foreman.
He's a troubled cure, not a troublemaker, except for himself.
Pong, tell the young gentleman what would become of you if you were to serve bad meals, to this output of cow punchers.
How? Ask Ted?
We had better start the drive this morning.
What a fuss is made about you, my dear little friends.
You surely cannot suppose that in a natural state you would be forced to climb regularly up one tall bare stick such as I see you upon now.
Your cousin, the wild convolvulus, whom I left in the fields this morning, does no such thing I assure you.
My young plants require heat, or they would not live, and the pots we are kept in protect us from those cruel wire worms who delight to destroy our roots.
Why not allow your silver tufts to luxuriate in a natural manner?
Still, the rose tree stood out that there must be some great advantages in a gardener's care, for she could not pretend to be ignorant of her own superiority to all her wild relations in the woods,
Then the wind took another frolic round the garden, and made up to the large white lily, and to whose refined ear he whispered a doubt as to the necessity or advantage of her thick, powerful stem being propped up against a stupid, ugly stick.
He really grieved to see it.
Did that lovely creature suppose that nature, who had done so much for her that the fame of her beauty extended throughout the world, had yet left her so weak and feeble that she could not support herself in the position most calculated to give her ease and pleasure?
Indeed, not a flower escaped his mischievous suggestions.
echoed the flowers, tremulously, as with a sort of fearful pleasure, they awaited his approach.
Making a sort of eddying circuit round the garden, he knocked over the convolvulus pole, tore the strips from the stick that held up the white lily, loosed all the carnation flowers from their fastenings, broke the rose tree down, and leveled the sweet peas to the ground.
Meanwhile, how fared it with the flowers.
Oh, that she were once more climbing up the friendly fur pole!
The honeysuckle escaped no better, and the carnation was ready to die of vexation at finding that her coveted freedom had leveled her to the dirt.
Before the day closed, the gardener came whistling from his farmwork to look over his pretty charges.
But for the sight that awaited him, he was not prepared at all.
Weeds, meanwhile, sprying up, and a dreary confusion rained in the once orderly and brilliant little garden.
The mistress had returned, and the young lady was with her, and hurried at once to her favorite garden.
In this position she remained until a gentle hand was laid upon her shoulder.
I am not thinking about the garden mama," replied the young girl, without lifting up her face. We can plant new flowers and tie up even some of these afresh.
In those very early times there was a man named Dukalian, and he was the son of Prometheus.
After Jupiter had bound Prometheus on Mount Caucasus and had sent diseases and cares into the world, men became very, very wicked.
These men, he said to his mighty company, are nothing but a source of trouble.
But men kept on fighting and robbing, even while the rain was pouring down and the sea was coming up over the land.
No one but Dukalian, the son of Prometheus, was ready for such a storm.
The day is coming, said Prometheus. When Jupiter will send a flood to destroy mankind from the earth,
But Dukalian and Pira were very sad, for they knew that they were the only persons who were left alive in all the land.
Is there anything that you wish? He asked.
We should like above all things," said Dukalian. To see this land full of people once more, for without neighbors and friends the world is a very lonely place indeed.
Go on down the mountain, said Mercury, and as you go, cast the bones of your mother over your shoulders behind you. And with these words, he leapt into the air and was seen no more.
What did he mean? asked Pera.
Surely I do not know, said Dukalian.
When at last they reached the plain they found themselves at the head of a noble company of human beings. All Leaguer deserved them.
When at last the queen gave birth to a daughter, the king was so overjoyed that he gave a great christening feast, the like of which had never before been known.
One of the young fairies overhearing her, and Van seeing she might work some mischief to the little baby, when'd in hit herself behind the hangings in the hall, so as to be able to have the last word and undo any harm the old fairy might wish to work.
The turn of the old fairy had now come, and she declared, while her head shook with malice, that the princess should pierce her hand with a spindle and die of the wound.
It is true I cannot entirely undo what my elder has done.
Now fifteen years after the princess was born, she was with the king and queen at one of their castles, and as she was running about by herself, she came to a little chamber at the top of the tower, and there sat an honest old woman spinning, but she had never heard of the king's edict.
She had no sooner taken up the spindle than being hasty and careless. She pierced her hand with the point of it and sainted away.
He knew that she would not awake for a hundred years.
One said it was an enchanted castle, another that witches lived there. But most believed that it was occupied by a great ogre, which carried the there all the children he could catch and ate them up one at a time, for nobody could get at him through the wood.
Beyond Prince at these words, felt himself on fire.
Scarcely had he come to the wood, when all the trees and thorns, which had made such an impenetrable thicket, opened on one side and the other to offer him a path.
He entered a large four-chord and stood still with amazement and awe.
But the faces of the men were rosy, and the goblets by them had a few drops of wine left.
He entered the guard room. There the guards stood drawn up in line with car-bines at their shoulders, but they were sound asleep.
He passed through one apartment after another, where were ladies and gentlemen asleep in their chairs or standing.
I have waited long for you.
They talked for four hours, and had not then said half that was in their heads to say.
Meanwhile, all the rest of the people in the castle had been awakened at the same moment as the princess, and they were now extremely hungry.
The lady in waiting became very impatient, and at length announced to the princess that they all waited for her.
Then the prince took the princess by the hand. She was dressed in great splendor. But he did not hint that she looked as he had seen pictures of his great-grandmother look. He thought her all the more charming for that.
The violins and hobois played old but excellent pieces of music, and after supper to lose no time, the grand alminer married the royal lovers and the chapel of the castle.
He turned to show them the castle. But behold!
When she said good night to Beanie and went to her chamber, over that where the loved parent and friend would fall asleep no more, she felt as if she went walking along to her tomb.
At the time Mary had noted nothing of these things. Now she saw them all, as for the first time in minute detail, while slowly she went up the stair and through the narrowed ways, and heard the same wind that raved alike about the new grave and the old house, into which latter, for all the bales banked against the walls, it found many a chink of entrance.
When she opened the door of it, the bright fire which Beanie undesired had kindled there startled her. The room looked unnatural, uncanny because it was cheerful.
She stood for a moment on the hearth, and in sad, dreamy mood listened to the howling swoops of the wind, making the house quiver and shake.
This was her dream as nearly as she could recall it when she came to herself after waking from it with a cry.
She was one of a large company at a house where she had never been before, a beautiful house with a large garden behind.
It was a summer night and the guests were wandering in and out at will, and through house and garden amid lovely things of all colors and odors.
But she knew nobody, and Wamburt alone in the garden, oppressed with something she did not understand.
At the end of it, she was in a place of tombs.
She entered, and the servants, soft-footed and silent, were busy carrying away the vessels of hospitality and restoring order, as if already they prepared for another company on the morrow. No one heeded her.
She was lost, lost utterly, with an eternal loss.
She knew nothing of the place, had nowhere to go, nowhere she wanted to go, had not a thought to tell her what question to ask if she met a living soul.
But living soul there could be none to meet.
She had lost him years and years before, and now she saw him. He was there and she knew him.
He came to her side and she gave him no greeting.
I know it and there is no waking.
The old time was but a thicker dream and this is truer because more shadowy.
Her only life was that she was lost.
Shall I pour out my soul into the ear of a mist, a fume from my own brain?
Thus was she born away captive of her dead, neither willing nor unwilling, of life and death equally careless.
With that came a paying of intense pain.
She herself should have been a poem, a lyric in a white gown and green scarf, coming to him through the long grass under the blossomed bowels.
Her hands should have been full of bluebells, and she should have held them up to his face and made him lead a fence as he sprang forward to take her in his arms.
You see that she knew exactly how a Trist is conducted in the pages of the standard poets and of the cheaper weekly journals.
She had to the full limit allowed of her reading and her environment, the literary sense.
And curiously enough, she was hardly curious at all about what he might have to say.
She only wished for May and the Orchard instead of January and the dingy, dusty waiting room, the plain-faced preoccupied travelers, the dim, desolate weather.
The setting of the scene seemed to her all important.
It was bitterly cold, but the embankment was more romantic than a railway carriage.
He had been late. He had offered no excuse, no explanation.
But here, the only thing that occurred to her was to stop and look in one of the shops till he should ask her what she was looking at.
The keen wind thrust itself even inside the high collar of her jacket.
Her hands and feet were aching with cold.
She would have shared his sorrow and shown herself half-wife half-angel from heaven in this dark hour.
She said how frightfully cold it is.
And yesterday I had a letter from her and she seems to expect to think, and I thought I had to tell you, darling.
A shock of unbelievable relief tingled through her, so that was all, but was it compared with her fears?
What opinion would he form of the purity of her mind, the innocence of her soul, if an incident like this failed to shock her deeply?
Following the tingle of relief came a sharp, sickening pinch of jealousy and mortification. These inspired her.
I don't wonder you were afraid to tell me, she began. You don't love me. You've never loved me. I was an idiot to believe you did.
Those four true words wounded her more than all the rest.
couldn't help it, then how can I ever trust you?
Do you think I'm not sorry now?
No, it's only painful for both of us.
I didn't think a decent man could do such things. She was pulling on her gloves. Go home and gloat over it all.
He stood up suddenly. Do you mean it?
Are you really going to throw me over for a thing like this?
And he strode down between the marble tables and out by the swing door. It was a very good exit.
At the corner he remembered that he had gone away without paying for the tea and his natural impulse was to go back and remedy that error.
He checked the cilium pulse.
So he enlisted and went to South Africa, and he never came home covered with medals and glory, which was rather his idea, to the few simple words of explanation that would have made all straight and repaid her and him for all the past.
The last strains of the ill-treated, ill-fated intermezzo had died away, and after them had died away also the rumbling of the wheels of the murderous barrel organ that had so gaily executed that, along with the nine other tunes of its repertory, to the admiration of the house made at the window of the house opposite, and the crowing delight of the two babies next door.
The young man drew a deep breath of relief and lighted the wax candles and the solid silver candlesticks on his writing table. For now the late summer dusk was falling and that organ, please heaven, made full the measure of the day's appointed torture.
Then there was silence, then a sigh, and the sound of light moving feet on the gravel.
And again, he listened with a quiet pleasure.
Never had any act seem so impossible.
There is a seat in the garden at the side of the house. Again she hesitated.
Then she turned towards the quarter indicated and disappeared around the laurel bushes.
Look here, he said. This is all nonsense, you know. You are tired out, and there's something wrong. What is it?
Do drink this and then tell me, perhaps I can help you.
He hurriedly cut cake and pressed it upon her.
He had no time to think, but he was aware that this was the most exciting adventure that had ever happened to him.
It's not only that you're poor. Well, that's nothing. I'm poor too. She laughed.
Her little foot tapped the gravel impatiently.
He told me to stay on at the hotel, and I did, and then one night when I was at the theatre, my maid, a horrid French thing we got in Paris, packed up all my trunks and took all my money, and paid the bill and went.
She said again, you are kind.
Well, then I went into lodgings that wicked woman had left me one street suit, and today they turned me out because my money was all gone.
Let me think, he said, how glad I am that you happen to come this way.
I shall lock up all the doors and windows in the house, and then I shall give you my latch key, and you can let yourself in and stay the night here. There is no one in the house.
I will catch the night train and bring my mother up tomorrow. Then we will see what can be done.
You see, papasso very rich, and at home they expect me to get acquainted with dukes and things, and she stopped.
It wasn't I who said that, said the girl smiling, but that's so anyhow. And then she sighed.
All the same, he added to relevantly, you shall have the latch key.
You are kind," she said for the third time and reached her hand out to him. He did not kiss it then, only took it in his and felt how small and cold it was. Then it was taken away.
The lady in the guitar certainly passed the night at Hillview Villa, but when his mother, very angry and very frightened, came up with him at about noon, the house looked just as usual, and no one was there but the charwoman.
The silver is alright, thank goodness, she said. But your banjo girl has taken a pair of your sister's silk stockings and those new shoes of hers with the silver buckles. And she's left these.
It was plain that his castinet girl, his mother and sister took a pleasure in crediting her daily with some fresh and unpleasing instrument, could have had neither taste money nor honesty to such a point as this.
Asparagus Salad Cook the asparagus in salted water, drain, and chill.
Birds nest salad. Have ready as many crisp leaves of lettuce as may be required to make a dainty little nest for each person.
served with French dressing hidden under the leaves of the nest.
Cabbage salad Chop or shave fine, half a medium-sized head of cabbage that has been left in cold water until crisp, then drain.
Add 2 tablespoons thick sour cream, 2 tablespoons sugar, a sprinkle of mustard, and 1 1 half cup vinegar.
Beat until thoroughly mixed, pour over the cabbage, and toss lightly until uniformly seasoned.
cauliflower mayonnaise. Take cold boiled cauliflower, break into branches, adding salt, pepper and vinegar to season.
Surround with a garnish of cooked and diced carrots, turnips, green peas.
poor mayonnaise overall chill and serve.
Celery and nut salad. Cut enough celery fine to measure two cups. Add one cup of finely shredded or shaved cabbage, and one and one half cups of walnut meats broken in small pieces, but not chopped.
Stir the soaked gelatin in while the cucumber is hot.
set into a cold place to chill and become firm.
2 cups of apples cut into small pieces, 1 cup celery cut into small pieces, 1 cup English walnuts.
serve on a lettuce leaf with mayonnaise dressing, made without mustard, and thinned with cream.
Garnish dish that dressing is made in with a little garlic.
Put the pulp into a basin with two ounces of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, half a pound of chestnuts boiled and grated, and seasoning of salt and white pepper to taste.
Tomato Baskets. Tomato baskets are charming accessories for holding vegetable salad, chicken, shrimps, cold beans, asparagus tips, shredded celery, cucumbers cut in cubes, and minced peppers.
Handles of watercress may be attached to these baskets.
This dressing should stand in the icebox four or five hours to become seasoned.
when thickened, strained, and cool.
strain and bottle and put in icebox shake before using each time.
San Francisco's carefree spirit was fully exemplified before the ashes of the Great Fire of 1906 were cold.
Thompson opened a large restaurant in O'Farrell Street, just above Fillmore. And for two years or more did a thriving business, his place being noted for its good cooking and its splendid service.
One of his waiters, Phil Tyson, was one of the earlier ones to go back into the burn district to begin business, and he opened a restaurant called the Del Monte in Powell Street near market. But it was too early for success and closed after a short career.
Here, as well as in a number of other places, one can well appreciate the colloquial definition of cabaret.
Here there is always good music and food well-cooked and well-served, and always a lively crowd during the luncheon, dinner, and after theatre hours. The room is not large, but its dimensions are greatly magnified owing to the covering of mirrors which line the walls.
This garish display of mirrors and elaborate decoration of ceiling and pillars gives it the appearance of the abode of Saturnalia, but decorum is the rule among the patrons.
John Tate is the presiding spirit here, he having made reputation as club manager and then as manager of the cliff house.
The poodle dog has a hotel attachment where one may get rooms or full apartments.
If you know how to order and do not care to count the cost when you order, probably the best dinner at these restaurants can be had at either Blanco's or the Poodle Dog.
The cuisine is of the best and the chef's rank at the top of their art.
At the two mentioned, one pays for the surroundings as well as for the food, and sometimes this is worth paying for.
The restaurants of the present day that approach nearest the old Bohemian restaurants of pre-fire days of the French class are jacks in Sacramento Street between Montgomery and Kearney, Felix in Montgomery Street between Clay and Washington, and the Poodle Dog, Berge's Franks in Bush Street between Kearney and Grant Avenue.
In either of these restaurants, you will be served with the best the market affords, cooked the right way.
In this same district is the Mint in commercial street between Montgomery and Kearney streets.
It has changed from what it was in the old days, but is still an excellent place to dine.
It is an idea that is worthwhile, but unfortunately, the proprietors depend too much on the decorative feature and too little on the food and how they serve it.
The flight trap and Charlie's fashion, the first in Sutter Street near Kearney and the other in market near Sutter, serve well-cooked foods, especially soup, salads and fish.
Of course, these are not the entire menus, but of all the well-prepared dishes, these are their best.
Both serve good Spanish dinners at reasonable prices.
His prices are moderate and is cooking in vines of the best and will satisfy the most critical of the gourmet's.
At the corner of Market and Eddy Streets is the Odeon, down in a basement, with decorations of most garish order.
One can almost imagine himself in one of the famous Arath's scalars of old Heidelberg. Not at the Schloss, of course. For here you cannot look down on the visor as it flows beneath the windows of the great Huynchthub on the hill.
But, if you really love good music, music that has melody and rhythm and soothing cadences, go to the Heidelberg Inn and listen to the concert, which is a feature of the place every evening.
We finally got him to select the one prized above all others, and this is what Chef Schuyler gave us.
To the pickle, add 2 large onions, cut in quarters, 2 fresh carrots, and about 1 ounce of mixed, whole-allspice, black peppers, cloves, and bay leaves.
Put in the oven and brown to a golden color.
Then, take it out of the roasting pan and put it into a casa roll after sprinkling it with two ounces of flour.
Put into the oven again and cook for half an hour, basting frequently with the original brine.
When done, take the meat out of the sauce.
Strang the sauce through a fine colander and add a few raisins, a piece of honey cake or ginger snaps, and the meat of one fresh tomato.
Season with salt and pepper and a little sugar to taste.
The Hofbrau, however, is less distinctively German, as the greater number of its patrons are Americans.
The specialty of the Hofbau is abalone's, and they have as a feature this shellfish cooked in several ways.
They also have as the chef in charge of the abalone dishes, Herbert, formerly chef of one of the yacht clubs of the coast, who claims to have the only proper recipe for making abalone's tender.
Under ordinary circumstances, the abalone is tough and unpalatable. But after the deft manipulation of Herbert, they are tender and make a fine dish, either fried, as chowder or alanuburg.
In addition to abalone's, the Hofbrough makes a specialty of little Oregon crawfish.
Never drink any hard lickers such as whiskey, brandy, gin or cocktails with oysters or clams as it is liable to upset you for the rest of the evening.
With soup and fish serve white wines such as Rhine wine, Sotern or white burgundy.
With entrees, serve clarets or other red wines such as Swiss, Bordeaux, Hungarian or Italian wines.
Austrian Burgundy is one of the finest wines, possessing rich flavor and fine perfume. Other Burgundis are...
Shabli, a white burgundy, dry and of agreeable aroma.
Clerits are valued for their flavor and for their tonic properties.
German wines are of lighter character and are generally termed Rhine wines.
Hochheimer, a light pleasing and wholesome wine.
dry end of magnificent bouquet.
La creme accristi, a still wine of excellent flavor in bouquet.
Sotern is a white bordeaux, a strong luscious wine, the best known varieties being
Vintage years have much to do with the quality of wines.
Ryan and Mozzell 1893
Claret, 1898, and 1904.
All idolization makes life poorer.
and why indulge in prophetic fantasies.
best they can only interpret the mind of the profit and can have no objective value.
My callous, the ticket of leave apostle, was speaking in an even voice, a voice that weezed as of deadened and oppressed by the layer of fat on his chest.
and ever since he had never managed to get his weight down as much as announced.
With his elbow presenting no appearance of a joint, but more like a bend in a dummy's limb thrown over the back of a chair, he leaned forward slightly over his short and enormous thighs to spit into the grate.
Yes, I had the time to think things out a little. He added without emphasis.
When he rose painfully, the thrusting forward of a skinny groping hand deformed by gouty swellings, suggested the effort of a more-abend murderer, summoning all his remaining strength for a last stab.
His enunciation would have been almost totally unintelligible to a stranger.
The old terrorist turned slowly his head on a skinny neck from side to side.
And I could never get as many as three such men together.
The possessions of property had not only the face they awake and proletariat, but they had also defied amongst themselves. Yes.
struggle warfare was the condition of private ownership. It was fatal.
Ah, he did not depend upon emotional excitement to keep up his belief. None to acclamations, no anger, no visions of blood-red flags waving, or metaphorical lurid sons of vengeance rising above the horizon of a doomed society. Not he.
Don't you think that, if I had not been the optimist I am, I could not have found in fifteen years some means to cut my throat?
A harsh laugh from Conrad Asupen cut the tirade dead short in the southern faltering of the tongue, and he bewildered unsteadiness of the apostles mildly exalted eyes.
Alexander Ossopan got up, tall on his threadbare blue surge suit under the low ceiling. Shek off the stiffness of long immobility, installed the way into the kitchen, down two steps, to look over Stevie's shoulder.
very characteristic, perfectly typical.
You would call that latter degenerate, would you? Mumble Mr. Verlock.
It was Carl Yunt who was heard, implacable to his last breath.
Lombrosa was an ass.
For him, the criminal is the prisoner. Simple, is it not?
there was an extraordinary force of suggestion in this posturing.
The famous terrorist had never in his life raised personally as much as his little finger against the social edifice.
The shadow of his evil gift clung to him, yet like the smell of a deadly drug in an old vial of poison, emptied now, useless, ready to be thrown away upon the rubbish heap of things that had served their time.
Macales, the ticket of leave apostle, smiled vaguely with his glued lips. His pasty moon face drooped under the weight of Malancholya scent.
He had been a prisoner himself.
His own skin had sizzled under the red hot brand team erred softly.
You don't understand, he began to stay in play, but stopped short, intimidated by the dead blackness of the cavernous eyes and the face turned slowly towards him with a blind stare, as if guided only by the sound.
He gave the discussion up with a slight shrug of the shoulders.
Stevie, accustomed to move about disregarded, had got up from the kitchen table carrying off his drawing to bed with him.
The sheet of paper covered with circles dropped out of his fingers, and he remained staring at the old terraced, as if rooted suddenly to the spot by his morbid horror and dread of physical pain.
his scared eyes blazed with indignation. It would hurt terribly. His mouth dropped open.
Comment Ossopon's face, twitched with exasperation.
I don't say that protested my callus gently.
His vision of truth had grown so intense that the sound of a strange voice failed to rat it this time.
The coals and the great settled down with a slight crash, and the callous, the hermit of visions in the desert of a peditentiary, got up impetuously.
The disdainful pout of Karmat Asapin's thick lips accentuated the meager type of his face.
He paused and added with a modest firmness.
I would call it cannibalistic. That's what it is.
They are nourishing their greed on the quivering flesh and the warm blood of the people. Nothing else.
Stevie swallowed a terrifying statement with an audible gulp, and at once, as though it had been swift poison, sank limply in a sitting posture on the steps of the kitchen door.
You close the door behind their backs with restrained violence. Turn the key, shot the bolt.
He was not satisfied with his friends.
With the inside of a kindred temperament, he pronounced his verdict.
There are natures, too, to whose sense of justice the price exactit looms up monstrously enormous, odious, oppressive, worrying, humiliating, extortionate, intolerable. Those are the fanatics.
in any case he had not the time.
Lothin was all very well for these fellows who knew not Mr. Vladimir and had women to fall back upon, whereas he had a woman to provide for.
These were but a few. And for the first time since he opened this shop, he took a commercial survey of its value.
The survey was unfavorable.
He took the cash box out of the drawer and turning to leave the shop became aware that Stevie was still downstairs.
He looked dubiously at his brother-in-law, but he did not ask him for information.
Mr. Verlock perceived with some surprise that he did not know really what to say to Stevie.
He stood still in the middle of the parlor and looked into the kitchen in silence.
He watched him justiculating and murmuring in the kitchen.
It's deep, you're proud around the table like an excited animal in a cage.
The light thrown down by the shade fell dazzlingly on the white pillow, sunk by the weight of her head, reposing with closed eyes and dark hair done up in several plates for the night.
Her bare feet, as if poked through the bottom of an unadorned sleeve the calicle sack, buttoned tightly at neck and wrists, felt over the rug for the slippers while she looked upward into her husband's face.
There is no occupation that fails a man more completely than that of a secret agent of police.
It's like your horse suddenly falling dead under you in the midst of an uninhabited and thirsty plane.
The comparison occurred to Mr. Rilak because he had satisfied various army horses in his time, and had now the sensation of an incipient fall.
The prospect was as black as the window pained against which he was leaning its forehead.
Yes, not at all well.
Down below in the quiet narrow street, measured footsteps approached the house, then died away unhurried in firm as if the passerby had started to pace out all eternity from gas lamp to gas lamp in a night without end. And the drowsy ticking of the old clock on the landing became distinctly audible in the bedroom.
That poor boy is in a very excited state tonight, Chief Mermurd, after a pause which lasted for three ticks of the clock.
This dread led him to make the remark that Stevie had disregarded his suggestion to go to bed.
There was no young man of his age in London more willing and docelled than Stephen, she affirmed. None more affectionate and ready to please, and even useful, as long as people did not upset his poor head.
Mr. Verlock's anxieties had prevented him from attaching any sense to what his wife was saying.
That boy hears too much of what is talked about here.
If I had known they were coming tonight, I would have seen to it that he went to bed at the same time I did.
He was out of his mind with something he overheard about eating people's flesh and drinking blood. What's the good of talking like that?
Mr. Verloch was fully responsive now.
As Carl Yunt he growled savagely.
He isn't fit to hear what's said here. He believes it's all true.
He knows no better. He gets into his passions over it.
He glared at me, as if he didn't know who I was when I went downstairs.
I wish he had never been to school, Mrs. Verlock began again, brushly.
He gets a red face pouring over them.
I wouldn't give a half penny for the whole lot.
The other day Stevie got hold of one, and there was a story in it of a German soldier-opposer tearing half off the ear of a recruit, and nothing was done to him for it. The brute!
You can't stand the notion of any cruelty.
Comfortable, dear.
Through the influence of honorable Thomas L. Hammer, he was admitted at West Point in 1839.
At this time Grant was not taken with war and probably even little interest in army tactics.
Grant acted as a mustering officer until being commissioned colonel of the 21st Illinois Volunteers he took the field.
General Helak, in speaking of this battle, said,
Indeed, if ever a general deserved honor, Grant had won it. He had opened the Mississippi to navigation and had captured nearly 100,000 prisoners and arms.
He was now commander of all the federal forces.
The capture of Lee was a far more difficult undertaking.
Time War Away, and on the 9th of April 1865, Grant captured the Confederate army under Lee, thus virtually ending the war.
When his public services were finished, he started in company with his wife, son Jesse and a few friends.
His success seems to have been the outgrowth of hard study and ability to reform the most exhaustive labor without fatigue.
Some are wonderfully wrought, pretty little homes for birdicans.
Indeed, it is not a nest at all, only the beginning of one.
And there is an old story about this, which I shall tell you.
Oh, what shall we do for a home?
And the poor silly things ruffled up their feathers and looked miserable as only a little bird can look when it is unhappy.
She was indeed a clever bird.
She popped into her new house and sat there comfortably, peering out through the window slits with her sharp little eyes.
And she saw all the other birds hopping about and twittering helplessly.
Then all the other birds chirped eagerly. Yes, yes, let us ask her to teach us.
So in a great company, they came fluttering, hopping, twittering up to the Elm Tree where Mother Meg pine nestled comfortably in her new house.
Oh, why is Mother Magpie? Dear Mother Magpie, they cried, teach us how to build our nests like yours, for it is growing night and we are tired and sleepy.
The magpie said she would teach them if they would be a patient, diligent, obedient class of little birds.
And where each bird perched, there it was to build its nest.
She began to show them how to weave the bits of things together into nests as they should be made.
And some of the birds who were attentive and careful soon saw how it was done and started nice homes for themselves.
I thought that was the way to begin.
Certainly of course, screamed the Jack-Daw.
Here, wood pigeon, said mother bagpie, you must place those sticks through and across, crisscross, crisscross, so.
Chris Cross, Chris Cross, so interrupted the wood pigeon.
You say you know all about it, then go on and finish your nests by yourselves.
Much luck may you have.
In a way she flew to her own coziness in the Elm Tree where she was soon fast asleep forgetting all about the matter.
But the wood pigeon was in the worst case of them all.
For she had only the foundation laid crisscross as the make by had shown her.
A person would think that after a family had lived so long in a place, all the neighbors would be fond of them, yet it is not so.
It is disgraceful.
They thought the trouble came from bad bringing up or no bringing up at all.
They always ate plain food and plenty of it and they never ate between meals.
You would think that with six legs a piece and three joints in each leg, they might walk quite fast, yet they never did.
They did not breathe it into their mouths or through gills, but took it in through some openings in the back part of their bodies.
Both lips asked the larvae.
Well, our lower lips anyway answered the nymph.
Our upper lips are so small they don't matter.
They knew that whenever they stuck out their lowered lips at the small fishes and bugs, they swam away as fast as they could.
Indeed, the lower lip of a dragonfly child might well frighten people, for it is fastened on a long, jointed arm-like thing, and has pincers on it, with which it catches and holds its food.
But sometimes he straightens the joint and holds his lip out before him, and then its pincers catch hold of things. He does this when he is hungry.
scared. Duh. Who's afraid? Answered he.
Here comes a snappy turtle!
Sure enough, there he came through the shallow water, his wet back shell partly out of it and shining in the sunlight.
They thought he might be going to take a nap after his dinner.
He began to draw on his legs very, very slowly, and just as his great heart lower shall touch the mud, the last larva crawled out under his tail.
The nymphs had already gotten away.
Ferdinand meditates over his good fortune.
In moments of deep feeling, alike sudden bursts of prosperity as in darker hours, man must be alone.
It requires some self-communion to prepare ourselves for good fortune, as well as to encounter difficulty, and danger, and disgrace.
This violent and triumphant revolution in his prospects and his fortunes was hardly yet completely comprehended by our friend Ferdinand R. Mein, and when he had left a note for the generous Mirabel, whose slumbers he would not disturb at this early hour, even with good news, he strolled along up Charles Street and to the park, in one of those wild and joyous reveries in which we brood overcoming bliss and create a thousand glorious consequences.
Ferdinand felt his freedom as well as his happiness.
It was indeed her handwriting.
Restless with impending joy, he sauntered to the bridge and leaned over the balustrade, gazing on the waters in charmed and charming vacancy.
How many incidents, how many characters, how many feelings flitted over his memory? Of what sweet and bitter experience did he not chew the cud?
Four and twenty hours ago, and he deemed himself the most miserable and forlorn of human beings. And now all the blessings of the world seemed showered at his feet.
The most gifted individuals in the land emulated each other, improving which entertained for him the most sincere affection.
He could not flatter himself that he indeed merited such singular blessings, and yet with all his faults, which with him were but the consequences of his fiery youth, Ferdinand had been faithful to Henrietta.
His constancy to her was now rewarded.
As for his friends, the future must prove his gratitude to them.
It was indeed dancing on a volcano.
And now all had ended so happily.
Was it not all a dream of his own creation, while his eye had been fixed in abstraction on that bright and flowing river?
He might be enchanted, but that was the talisman.
In the present unsettled, though hopeful state of affairs, Ferdinand would not go home.
In exactly ten minutes it is in the power of every man to free himself from all the tumult of the world. The pangs of love, the throbs of ambition, the wear and tear of play, the recriminating boudoir, the conspiring club, the rattling hell, and find himself in a sublime, sillven solitude, superior to the cedars of Lebanon, an inferior only in extent to the chestnut forests of Anatolia.
Is Papa alone? Enquirert Miss Temple?
Grant was only a few miles away, but although the Commander in Chief, he knew nothing of the hardest fought battle of the Civil War until it was over.
My own regiment was in the advance.
Our brigade was fearfully outnumbered.
There were no breastworks, yet that one little brigade of Hamilton's division stood there in the open and repulsed assault after assault.
Not Balaklava, nor the Alma, saw such fighting. It was the dual to the death.
No battery in the whole four years war lost so many men in so short a time.
One daring rebel was shot down and bayoneted clear behind the line of Company B, where he had broken through to seize the flag of my regiment.
That night the enemy slipped away, leaving hundreds and hundreds of his dead and wounded on the field.
With a few lanterns, our men then went about and tried to gather up the wounded. The dead were left till morning.
It was not a question of who was dead or wounded, but who was not.
15 officers of our little half regiment were dead or wounded.
I remained awake all night, talking with a comrade who shared my blanket with me. Poor Jimmy King.
He survived the war only to be murdered later on a plantation in Mississippi.
When morning came the firing opened, and for all that day the battle raged fiercely at the left and center left. We getting the worst of it too.
That evening an order came for us, Hamilton's division, to assault the enemy's left flank at midnight.
Under the same quiet moonlight and only 600 yards away from us, also lay the victorious Rebel Army.
Once in the night, I slipped away from the bivowack and hurried to the old Tishomingo Hotel to see a lieutenant of my company who had been shut through the breast.
I could not help my friend.
Go back to the regiment," he said, smiling. All will be needed.
My friend with many others was being carried out to die elsewhere.
I hasten back to the lines.
The cloud or rebels we had seen divided itself into three columns.
A perfect blaze of close-range musketry to mow them down like grass.
They lay in heaps of dozens, even close up to the works.
That night I stood guard under an oak tree on the battlefield among the Unburied Dead.
Indeed, we of the rank and file had little confidence in grant in those days.
Rose Crans protested. It was in vain.
It required months and great events to make Grant the hero of the army which he afterward became.
For some reason, the dead at Hatchy Bridge were not buried.
A week after the battle, my brother rode by there on a cavalry expedition and made the horrible discovery that hogs were eating up the bodies of our dead heroes. That too was war.
Long ago, they lived a merchant who had three daughters.
Every year, at a certain day of a certain month, he went away to a distant city to collect money on an account.
How do you know, asked their father, I am older and wiser than you are, and I know that there are many evils which might come upon you.
When it was evening, he led his band into a nearby street, and in his disguise approached the merchant's house. He knocked at the door.
Have pity upon a poor unfortunate one, he called out.
Let me enter, I pray you, to pass the night under your roof.
It's surely a terrible storm outside," said the merchant's eldest daughter, as the wind rattled the tiles of the roof, and the rain beat in torrents against the doors and windows.
He is old as well as poor, she said.
If we decide to show mercy to this poor beggar, it is not for you to oppose it.
But we should not forget our promise to our Father, cried the youngest daughter.
However, in spite of all she could say, the elder sisters opened the door and admitted the beggar.
It is a fearful night to send away a beggar," said the eldest sister while they were eating.
While they were talking, the beggar had taken the apples, which the girls were to eat for dessert, and had sprinkled a sleeping powder over them.
The two eldest ate their apples, but the youngest could not eat that night. She threw the apple away.
She did not stir, and he knew that the sleeping powder had thoroughly done its work.
Then she hurt him go down the stairway and unbolt the heavy doors which led into the store.
It was the youngest one who deceived me," cried the Robert Chiefton.
Perhaps we can outwit her yet, cried another.
The merchant's daughter at first did not answer, but as he kept on calling to her, she finally asked him what it was that he wanted.
I promise you I will do you no harm.
You shall not come into my father's house.
Pass the charm out to me then, said the robber.
When she returned, his hand was sticking through the hole in the door.
The cries and curses of the robbers filled the air.
They tried in vain to break down the great doors.
All my worries about you were foolish.
He had little enough to break or bite, and once, when there was a great famine in the land, he could hardly procure even his daily bread. And as he lay thinking in his bed one night, he sighed and said to his wife, What will become of us?
How can we feed our children when we have no more than we can eat ourselves?
Oh, you simpleton said she. Then we must all for die of hunger. You had better plan the coffins for us."
But she left him no peace till he consented saying, ah, but I shall miss the poor children.
And as soon as their parents had gone to sleep, he got up, put on his coat, and unbarring the back door went out.
Ah, Father, said Hansel, I am looking at my white cat sitting upon the roof of the house and trying to say goodbye.
But in reality, Hansel was not looking at a cat. But every time he stopped, he dropped a pebble out of his pocket upon the path.
But her husband felt heavy at heart and thought, it were better to share the last crust with the children.
Early in the morning, the stepmother came and pulled them out of bed and gave them each a slice of bread, which was still smaller than the former piece.
We are going into the forest to Huewood, and in the evening, when we are ready, we will come and fetch you again.
Hansel thought the roof tasted very nice, and so you tore off a great piece. While Gretel broke a large round pane out of the window and sat down quite contentedly.
come in and stop with me, and no harm shall come to you." And so sang, she took them both by the hand and led them into her cottage.
The old woman behaved very kindly to them, but in reality she was a wicked old witch who waylaid children and built the bread house in order to entice them in. But as soon as they were in her power, she killed them, cooked them and ate them, and made a great festival of the day.
Then she took up Hansel with her rough hand and shut him up in a little cage with a lattice door, and although he screamed loudly, it was of no use.
Gretel began to cry, but it was all useless, for the old witch made her do as she wanted.
Gretel, she cried in a passion, get some water quickly. Be handsome, fat, or lean, this morning I will kill and cook him.
Dear good God help us now she prayed.
Cree Ben said the witch and see if it is hot enough, and then we will put in the bread. But she intended when Gretel got in to shut up the oven and let her bake so that she might eat her as well as Hansel.
See, I could even get in myself.
and she got up and put her head into the oven.
And now, as there was nothing to fear, they went back to the witch's house, wherein every corner were caskets full of pearls and precious stones.
Then they began to run, and rushing into the house they fell upon their father's neck.
Go! Do you hear?
But in less than five minutes, the staircase groaned beneath an extraordinary weight.
At this moment, the whole soul of the old man seemed centered in his eyes, which became bloodshot. The veins of the throat swelled, his cheeks and temples became purple as though he was struck with epilepsy. Nothing was wanting to complete this but the utterance of a cry.
and the cry issued from his pours, if we may thus speak, a cry frightful in its silence.
Devinee rushed towards the old man and made him inhale a powerful restorative.
Davenny, unable to bear the sight of this touching emotion, turned away, and vilaford, without seeking any further explanation, and attracted towards him by the irresistible magnetism which draws us towards those who have loved the people for whom we mourn, extended his hand towards the young man.
For some time nothing was heard in that chamber but sob's exclamation and prayers.
What do you mean, sir?
Oh you rave sir! exclaimed Villa Fort, in vain, endeavoring to escape the net in which he was taken. I rave
Do you know the assassin, Esmeral?
Nautier looked upon morale with one of those melancholy smiles which had so often made Valentine happy and thus fixed his attention.
said morale sadly. Yes, replied Nwatiye.
The old man's eyes were made fixed on the door.
as well. Yes.
Must I leave alone? No.
But can he understand you? Yes.
Gentlemen, he said in a horse voice, give me your word of honor that this horrible secret shell forever remained buried amongst ourselves. The two men drew back.
My father has revealed the culprit's name. My father thirsts for revenge as much as you do, yet even he conjures you as I do to keep this secret. Do you not, father?
Morrell suffered an exclamation of horror and surprise to escape him.
The old man made a sign in the affirmative.
It was something terrible to witness, the silent agony, the mute despair of Mottier, whose tears silently rolled down his cheeks.
But he stopped on the landing. He had not the courage to again visit the Death Chamber.
The two doctors therefore entered the room alone.
Nwatiye was near the bed pale motionless and silent as the corpse.
The district doctor approached with the indifference of a man accustomed to spend half his time amongst the dead. He then lifted the sheet, which was placed over the face and just unclosed the lips.
The nearest, said the district doctor, is a good Italian abbe who lives next door to you. Shall I call on him as I pass?
Daveni, said Villa Fort. Be so kind I would see to you as to accompany this gentleman. Here is the key of the door so that you can go in and out as you please. You will bring the priest with you and will oblige me by introducing him into my child's room. Do you wish to see him?
I only wish to be alone. You will excuse me, will you not?
I am going, sir, and I do not hesitate to say that no prayers will be more fervent than mine.
But, with full ravishment the hours of prime, singing, received they in the midst of leaves that ever bore a burden to their rhymes.
All waters that on earth most limpid are would seem to have within themselves some mixture compared with that which nothing does conceal.
Thou mayest me remember where and what, Prosopena, that moment was, When lost her mother her, and she herself the spring.
I do not think they're shown so great a light under the lids of Venus when transfixed by her own son beyond his usual custom.
Yey are newcomers and because I smile, be can she? Per adventure in this place, elect to human nature for its nest.
Some apprehension keeps you marveling, but the Somme de l'actasse giveth light which has the power to uncloud your intellect.
The good supreme, soul in itself delighting, created man good, and this goodly place gave him as hands of eternal peace.
By his default short while he's adjourned here. By his default to weeping and to toil he changed his innocent laughter and sweet play.
This every other saver does transcend, and notwithstanding, slaked so far may be thy thirst that I reveal to thee no more.
Between her steps and mine were not a hundred when equally the margins gave a turn in such a way that to the east I faced.
Nor even thus our way continued far before the lady wholly turned herself unto me, saying, Brother, look and listen.
Now Helicon must needs poor fourth for me, and with her choir, Uranium must assist me to put inverse things difficult to think.
Then, back I turned my face to those high things, which moved themselves towards us so sedately they had been distanced by new wedded brides.
And I beheld the flamelets onward go, leaving behind themselves the air depicted, and they of trailing penins had the semblance, so that it overhead remained distinct with sevenfold lists, all of them of the colors whence the sun's bow is made, and Delia's girdle.
These standards to the rear were longer than was my sight, and, as it seemed to me, ten paces were the outermost apart.
The interval between these four contained a chariot, triumphal, on two wheels, which by a griffon's neck came drawn along.
Not only Rome with no such splendid car, air-gladdened Africanus, or Augustus, but poor to it that of the sun would be.
Three maidens at the right wheel in a circle came onward dancing, one so very red that in the fire she hardly had been noted.
The second was as if her flesh and bones had all been fashioned out of emerald. The third appeared as snow, but newly fallen.
In rear of all the group here treated of two old men I beheld, unlike in habit, but like in gate, each dignified and grave.
And when the car was opposite to me, thunder was heard, and all that folk August seemed to have further progress interdited.
And one of them, as if by heaven commissioned singing, Vaini's sponsor De Libano shouted three times and all the others after.
As soon as on my vision smote the power sublime that had already pierced me through air from my boyhood I had yet come forth
To the left hand I turned, with that reliance with which the little child runs to his mother when he has fear or when he is afflicted.
To say unto Virgilius, not a drachum of blood remains in me that does not tremble. I know the traces of the ancient flame.
Dante, because Virgilius has departed, do not weep yet. Do not weep yet awhile, for by another sword thou needs must weep.
I saw the lady, who air while appeared veiled underneath the angelic festival, direct her eyes to me across the river.
Look at me well. In soothe I'm Beatrice.
You keep your watch in the eternal day so that nor night nor sleep can steal from you one step the ages make upon their path.
Therefore, my answer is with greater care that he may hear me who is weeping yonder so that the sin and dull be of one measure.
But by the largesse of celestial graces, which have such lofty vapors for their reign that near to them our sight approaches not.
As soon as ever of my second age, I was upon the threshold and changed life, himself from me he took and gave to others.
So low he fell that all appliances for his salvation were already short, save showing him the people of Prudition.
Confusion and dismay together mingled forced such a yes from out my mouth that sight was needful to the understanding of it.
Wence, she to me. In those desires of mine which led thee to the loving of that good, beyond which there is nothing to aspire to,
and what allurements, or what vantages upon the forehead of the other showed that thou should turn thy footsteps unto them.
He translated at an early age chiefly between 1845 and 1849 a great number of poems by the Italians contemporary with Dante or preceding him and among other things he made a version of the whole Vitanwava prose and verse.
This book, in its original form, was received with favor and settled the claim of Rosetti to rank as a poetic translator, or indeed as a poet in his own right.
The lifeblood of rhythmical translation is this commandment that a good poem shall not be turned into a bad one.
The only true motive for putting poetry into a fresh language must be to endow a fresh nation as far as possible with one more possession of beauty.
Poetry not being an exact science, the morality of rendering is altogether secondary to this chief law.
Often would he avail himself of any special grace of his own idiom and epoch, if only his will belonged to him. Often would some cadence serve him, but for his author's structure, some structure but for his author's cadence. Often the beautiful turn of a stanza must be weakened to adopt some rhyme which will tally, and he sees the poet reveling in abundance of language where himself is scantily supplied.
And if you have time, it would be a great service to translate the analyses of the poem, which I omitted.
On January 25th he wrote, Many and many thanks for a most essential service most thoroughly performed.
My notes, which you have taken the treble of revising, are of course quite paltry and useless.
It is therefore, and on all accounts, unnecessary to say much more of the work here than it says for itself.
Throughout the Vita Nwava there is a strain like the first falling murmur which reaches the ear in some remote meadow and prepares us to look upon the sea.
A word should be said here of the title of Dante's autobiography.
This has induced some editors of the Vita nova to explain the title as meaning early life.
Thereafter, this sonnet bread in me desire to write down in verse 4 other things touching my condition, the which things it seemed to me that I had not yet made manifest.
Which thing being thus there came a day when certain ladies to whom it was well known They haven't been with me at diverse times in my trouble were met together for the pleasure of gentle company
But when I still spake not, one of them, who before had been talking with another, addressed me by my name, saying, To what end-loved thou this lady, saying that thou can't not support her presence?
And now that it hath pleased her to deny me this, Love my master of his great goodness hath placed all my beattitude there where my hope will not fail me.
Then those ladies began to talk closely together, and as I have seen snow fall among the rain, so was their talk mingled with sighs.
And I declare that when I speak thereof, love sheds such perfect sweetness over me, that if my courage failed not certainly, to him my listeners must be all resigned.
Whatever her sweet eyes are turned upon, Spirits of love do issue thence in flame, Which, through their eyes, who then may look on them, Piers to the hard-steep chamber, everyone.
To her I went along, in whose much strength my weakness has made strong.
So to the road thou shalt be reconciled, and find the lady, and with the lady love.
The second begins here, an angel. The third here, dear Song, I know.
The first part is divided into 4.
In the third, I say what it is I purpose to speak so as not to be impeded by faint-heartedness.
and the fourth, repeating to whom I purpose speaking. I tell the reason why I speak to them.
In the second, I tell what is understood of her on Earth. Here, my lady is desired.
The second part is divided into two. Four, and the first, I speak of her as regards the nobleness of her soul, relating some of her virtues proceeding from her soul. And the second, I speak of her as regards the nobleness of her body, narrating some of her beauties. Here, love sayeth concerning her.
This second part is divided into two, four in the one, I speak of the eyes, which are the beginning of love. In the second I speak of the mouth, which is the end of love.
And at the first it seemed to me that I saw certain faces of women with their hair loosened, which called out to me, thou shalt surely die. After the witch other terrible and unknown appearances said unto me, Thou art dead.
And so strong was my fantasy that I wept again and very truth, and said with my true voice, Oh excellent soul, how blessed is he that now looketh upon thee.
whereby other ladies who were about the room, becoming aware of my discomfort by reason of the moan that she made, who, indeed, was of my very near kindred, led her away from where I was, and then set themselves to awaken me, thinking that I dreamed and sang, sleeping no longer and be not disquieted.
When being aroused, I opened my eyes and knew that it had been a deception.
In my hue was such that they looked at each other and thought of death, saying under their breath, most tenderly, O let us comfort him. Then unto me, what dream was thine that hath shaken thee so much?
And therewith all such a bewilderment possessed me that I shut my eyes for peace, and in my brain did cease order of thought and every healthful thing.
Then saw I many broken-hinted sites in the uncertain state I stepped into.
These willtering fantasies then carried me to see my lady dead.
The second part begins here. I was a thinking. The first part divides into two.
This lady's right name was Joan, but because of her cumbliness, or at least it was so imagined, she was called of many, Brima Vera, spring, and went by that name among them.
And in his speech he laughed and laughed again. Then, while it was his pleasure to remain, I chanced to look the way he had drawn near. And saw the ladies, Joan and Beatrice, approach me, this, the other following, one and a second marvel instantly.
The second part begins here, saying, be now. The third here. Then, while it was his pleasure.
He lives, thy loss. He dies, from every limb mangled by thee. Lightnings of Godhead shine, from which thy darkness hath not where to hide.
Quinci am paras tu piriti.
How the dead saint condemns the bad who live.
The world's thick vapours well, your eyes unworthy of that glorious show, Blind his splendor bent upon his shame.
Money is false and light unless it be bought by a man's own worthy qualities. And blood is such that its corrupt disease and ignorant pretense are foul to see.
I'll pop a lot on a best, yeah.
The people is a beast of muddy brain that knows not its own force, and therefore stands, loaded with wood and stone, the powerless hands of a mere child, guided with bit and rain. One kick would be enough to break the chain, but the beast fears, and what the child demands, it does. Nor its own terror understands, confused and stupefied by Bugbear's vein.
Most wonderful.
That penance hath no blame, which Magdalene found sweet, purging our shame. Self-punishment is virtue, all men know.
Organ of rot, not reason, is the Lord who from the body politic, doth drain, lost for himself, instead of toil and pain. Leaving us lean as crickets on dry sward.
Well, too, if he, like love, would filch our horde, with pleasure to ourselves, sleusing our vain and vigour to perpetuate the strain of a life by spilt of life within a stored.
Heaven help that body which a little mind housed in a head lacking ears, tongue, and eyes in senseless but for smell can tyrannize.
Due to thee their praise of maiden pure, of teeming motherhood.
Vow like Arcturus steadfast in the skies, with tardy sense guide us to thy kingdom fair, bearing alone the load of liberty.
Not having heard from Captain Benidic for some little time, Randall thought it desirable in Sydney's interest to make inquiries at his club.
The sailing master announced that he had orders to take the vessel back to her port, with no other explanation than that the cruise was over.
This alternative in the captain's plans, terminating the voyage a month earlier than his arrangements had contemplated, puzzled Randall.
Randall waited a while in London on the chance that Benidec might pay him a visit.
He is staying at this hotel to try the air of Sidonam and he finds that it agrees with him.
Had her beauty fascinated him?
Randall wrote to accept the invitation, determining to present himself before the appointed hour and to question Catherine privately without giving her the advantage over him of preparing herself for the interview.
After months of separation, he received a visit from Herbert.
You distress me Herbert, more than words can say.
He drank the wine greedily.
Whatever reviving effect it might otherwise have produced on him, it made no change in the threatening gloom of his manner.
He put down the empty glass, taking no notice of his brother's question.
Randall, he said, you know where Sydney is.
I will do neither the one nor the other.
You don't know what it is to be used to seeing a pretty creature, always nicely dressed, always about the room, thinking so much of you and so little of herself, and then to be left alone as I am left, out in the dark.
I'm alone. Do you hear that? Alone.
I have encouraged enough to do it for myself.
Oh, why did I engage that governess?
I'm afraid," he said.
I tried it yesterday. It set my brains on fire. I'm feeling that glass I took just now.
He paused and put his hand to his fevered head.
Was his mind wandering into some other train of thought?
You can't do it.
Let me hear what it is first.
I feel for you, Herbert," he said warmly.
She shall have your message, all that I can do to persuade her shall be done.
Let me rest a little, he pleaded. If I'm not in the way.
He mentioned the name of one of the old servants at Mount Morvan, who had attached himself to Randall after the breakup of the family.
On the next day but one, Randall arranged his departure for Sidenham, so as to arrive at the hotel an hour before the time appointed for the dinner.
The new number of a popular weekly journal had that day been published. Randall bought it.
After reading one or two of the political articles, he arrived at the columns specially devoted to fashionable intelligence.
Randall looked again at the first words in the paragraph.
With his own suspicions steadily contradicting him, he arrived at the hotel, obstinately believing that the charming widow would prove to be a stranger.
Mrs. Norman and her little daughter were out driving with a friend, and were expected to return in good time for dinner.
Mrs. Presti was at home. She was reported to be in the garden of the hotel.
How nice of you to come so soon, she began.
She added, looking at him suspiciously.
But you ought to have known that we are only half an hour behind you at Sidonham in the matter of news.
The report is premature, my good friend.
But if these newspaper people waited to find out whether a report is true or false, how much gossip would society get in its favorite newspapers?
You are to understand that Catherine is a widow.
Sit down, said Mrs. Presti.
You shall hear how my divorced daughter and my poor little grandchild were treated at Sandy Seal after you left us.
You would have seen her pining for the company of other children and would have had no mercy on her.
He was introduced to Mrs. Norman, and to Mrs. Norman's little girl, and we were all charmed with him.
When he and I happened to be left together he naturally wondered, after having seen the beautiful wife, where the lucky husband might be.
And the captain of course concluded, after having been introduced to Kitty, that Mrs. Norman was a widow.
Worst stories have been printed. I do assure you worst stories have been printed.
Before I consented to answer the child's inquiries, I came to an understanding with her mother.
Honestly.
After that, I had her mother's authority for telling Kitty that she would never see her father again.
She asked directly if her father was dead.
That will do, Mrs. Presti, your defense is thoroughly worthy of your conduct in all other respects.
Randall passed this over without notice.
A very wise decision, she remarked.
Have you any message for Captain Benidec?
Not at the hotel, just now.
It was a relief to Randall in the present state of Catherine's relations toward Benedict, to return to London without having seen his friend.
Goodbye, dear Randall.
Arrived at the station, Randall found that he must wait for the train.
While he was walking up and down the platform with a mind doubly distressed by anxiety about his brother and anxiety about Sydney, the train from London came in.
What are you doing here?" he asked.
You have been to the hotel, he burst out. You have seen Catherine?
We have both seen the same newspaper, of course, and you have been the first to clear the thing up. That's it, isn't it?
Not satisfied with Gossip in Private, the greedy public appetite devours Gossip in Print and wants more of it than any one editor can supply.
supposing the report had been true.
In the meantime, after what Mrs. Presti had confessed, the cruel falsehood which had checked poor Kitty's natural inquiries raised an insufferable obstacle to a meeting between father and child.
He had promised to do his best toward persuading Catherine to Grant Sidney an interview.
Even the chance of successfully confiding her to Benidex's protection had lost something of its fair promise since Randall's visit to Sidonam.
Be the results, however, what they might. Randall could see but one plain course before him now.
Considerations of delicacy seem to forbid taking this liberty, even with an intimate friend.
What happier future could wait her, especially if she justified Randall's past experience of all that was candid and truthful in her character, than to become his friend's wife?
Shall I say that she may expect an early visit from you when I see her tomorrow?
He added Sidney's address in a postscript and dispatched his letter that evening.
But it might, perhaps, be excusable to infer that the marriage had not yet been decided on, and that the captain's proposals were still waiting for Catherine's reply.
